20040214
 Wayback Machine	  JAN	FEB	MAR Previous capture	14	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,644 captures 22 Oct 96 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Fri. 2 am ET  Badger State Battle —  Wisconsin could be the key to Kerry's lock on the nomination.  We'll debate what he's doing to get it. 		 								 		Submit 					 	 DJIA 10627.85  -66.22 	 NASDAQ 2053.56  -20.05 	 S & P 500 1145.81  -6.3 2-13-04 04:15 PM ET Data Delayed 20 Mins Submit Bush Releases More Military Records  AP/George Bush Presidential Library Bush poses during his National Guard days. President shows hundreds of pages of documents to counter growing talk that he might have shirked Texas Air National Guard duty Related Stories •Bush Agrees to Meet With 9/11 Panel   Guardsman Vocal About Guns, Faith Muslim convert Ryan Anderson accused of trying to give terrorists info U.S. Soldier Killed in Afghanistan Nine more troops wounded by mine blast near the city of Ghazni Clark Endorses Kerry One-time rival backs front-runner • AFL-CIO to Endorse Kerry Former Iraq POW: I'm 'Not a Hero' Shoshana Johnson says guards told her to marry Iraqi man after her capture Jacko Ruling Delayed Singer's lawyers ask for more time to prepare for preliminary hearing Group Fails to End Gay Marriages Couples still tying knot in S.F. after judge refuses to stop spree Morning-After Pill Decision on Hold FDA under intense political pressure to reject over-the-counter option Envoy: Elections Won't Meet Deadline • Baghdad Blast Kills GI, Injures Two  • S. Korea Sending Troops to Iraq Panel to Review Gitmo Detainees Hearings to be held annually • Detainee Transferred to Spain Stewart Judge Blocks Expert Witness Forbids testimony on importance of ImClone statements to investors  'No Child Left Behind' in Question Program's value debated among politicians, educators Kashmir Peace Key to Fighting Terror In Views: India, Pakistan shouldn't miss opportunity to end conflict Other Arafat Target of Probe French prosecutors investigating PLO leader's wife in money-laundering case Making Plans for College Money Matters: Gail Buckner advises parents on college savings Georgia Pastors Raise Hackles Legislature's habit of opening with prayer said to mix church with state Preparing for Baghdad in Arizona Desert locale home to counter-espionage, interrogation training   Dems Face Caucuses in Nevada, D.C.  Together Again Sandler, Barrymore team up for romantic comedy about memory loss Seacrest's Rising Star 'American Idol' host gets his own new talk show, and more Leave Me Alone Singer Ani DiFranco says new album is all about solitude in her life    Common Sense What do Mike Tyson and Michael Jackson have in common?  Questionable Teaching Why is one N.Y. high school teacher asking students to debate the pros and cons of Hitler and other dictators?  'No Child Left Behind' Gets Mixed Reviews Pastors in Georgia Legislature Raise Hackles Bush Agrees to Meet With 9/11 Panel Halliburton Back on the Hot Seat U.S. Imposes Nuke Commitment Deadline for Iran  Stocks Tumble on Deficit, Falling Consumer Morale 529, CSA and LSA: Gail Contrasts and Compares Ex-Enron CEO Skilling May Be Indicted as Early as Next Week Neil Cavuto's Common Sense: Love Is in the Air Hardee's to Close 28 Restaurants  Making Music With Lauren Green Phil Spector's Lawyers Refuse to Share Evidence Gibson's 'Passion' in Very 'Select' Theatres CBS Apologizes for OutKast's Grammy Performance Sandra Bullock Gets Hasty Pudding Award  Kashmir Peace Key to Fighting Terror The People (and the Dogs) Versus Jayson Williams Joanne Jacobs: Under the Skin Junk Science: Feds Press Salt Assault Straight Talk: Retiring Senator Penalized for Principles  FNC Alerts  |  News Ticker  |  Schedule  |  Bios  |  E-mail Shows  |  Upgrade Central  FOX News Shop  |  Find FNC in Your Area  |  Find FNC Abroad  |  FAQs   Advertise on FOX News Channel, FOXNews.com and FOX News Radio  Jobs at FOX News Channel. Internships at FOX News Channel.  Terms of use.  Privacy Statement.  For FOXNews.com comments write to  foxnewsonline@foxnews.com;  For FOX News Channel comments write to  comments@foxnews.com  © Associated Press. All rights reserved.  Copyright © 2004 ComStock, Inc.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.   Copyright 2004 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.  All market data delayed 20 minutes. Last Updated: 2-14-04 1:31am ET  Hannity & Colmes Fri. 9 pm / 2 am ET Badger State Battle — Wisconsin could be the key to Kerry's lock on the nomination. We'll debate what he's doing to get it. Your World w/ Neil Cavuto 4pm ET   1am ET The Number 1 Business Program on Cable  Terror Handbook Understanding and facing the threat to America • Are You Prepared for an Attack?   In the Carlie Brucia murder case, if chosen as a juror, could you presume the suspect innocent prior to trial? Yes No Not sure  Watch 'On the Record' weeknights at 10 p.m. ET This is not a scientific poll.   FOX News Sunday w/ Chris Wallace Check your local listings FOX News Radio Become a part of America's news phenomenon  Live Baghdad Cam A view of the square where the Saddam statue was torn down. Windows Media Player only. E-mail Newsletters Click here to sign up for the FNC Update, the FOX 411, and more! Hotel Finder Traveling? Find hotels that broadcast the FOX News Channel FOX News Alerts Sign up for breaking news alerts to your e-mail or mobile device FOX News Ticker Headlines from FOX News - direct to your desktop Weather Alert Get weather alerts on your e-mail or mobile device FOX News Shop Get the latest apparel from FOX News Channel   
