20051103
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	3	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Wednesday 3 P.M. Eastern  The weather is quiet across the eastern two-thirds of the nation as a large area of high pressure stretches from the southern Plains to the mid-Atlantic states. This system is producing abundant sunshine from the Plains to the East Coast. Temperatures are seasonably cool across the Northeast with most locations topping out in the upper 40s to 50s. It is a different story in the Plains where a southwest flow on the back side of the high pressure is pumping temperatures well up into the 70s and 80s. The only real weather actions is taking place from the Pacific Northwest to the northern Rockies. A storm system moving into the northern intermountain region is producing showers form northern California into the valleys of the northern Rockies. Snow is falling in the higher elevations. The Northwest coast is mainly dry but cloudy this afternoon. Another storm system poised over the north Pacific will bring a new round of rain and mountain snow into the region. In the Southwest, the offshore flow that boosted temperatures into the 80s and 90s in Southern California over the past couple of days has come to an end, and temperatures have return to more seasonable levels as the jet steam sinks farther south. This southern branch of the jet is bring some high clouds in over the Southwest region.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1810 New York — A seven-inch snowfall in NYC permitted earliest ever sleighing in the streets.  1983 Acapulco — Tropical Storm Velma is the 20th storm this season, making 1983 the most active tropical season in the eastern Pacific.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
