20050810
 Wayback Machine	  JUL	AUG	SEP Previous capture	10	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Tuesday 3 P.M. Eastern  Numerous showers and drenching thunderstorms are spreading across the Southeast and mid-Atlantic states as an area of low pressure moves northward along the Southeast coast through a very moist air mass in place over the region. Meanwhile, a cold front cutting through the Upper Midwest and northern Plains is triggering thunderstorms from the northern Great Lakes, through southern Minnesota and into the western High Plains. Some of the storms will become severe this afternoon as an area of low pressure pushes eastward across Minnesota into Wisconsin. An upper-level disturbance is triggering strong thunderstorms over central and eastern Texas. Elsewhere, thunderstorms were becoming more numerous over the Southwest as a monsoonal flow delivers moisture to the region. The heaviest storms are occurring where the borders of Nevada, California and Arizona meet. The weather is dry from the Midwest into northern New England, but the combination of heat and humidly is making it feel rather muggy. The best weather can be found over the Northwest where it is warm this afternoon under a mostly sunny sky.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1876 Wallingford, CT — New England's second most destructive tornado with a short path. A Church, a school and 30 homes were demolished and completely destroyed. Thirty-four people were killed.  1979 Lost Creek, WV — Just south of Clarksburg, water was running 6 to 7 feet deep through the center of town with mobil homes floating downstream. Several roads washed out and some buildings were swept off their foundations.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
