20040925
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	25	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		Submit  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Friday 4 A.M. Eastern  Tropical Storm Ivan was downgraded to Tropical Depression Ivan Thursday evening as the system made landfall over southwestern Louisiana, near Sabine. Periods of heavy rain, an inch or two in southern and southwestern Louisiana, came from the landfalling tropical system. As the remnants move west across Southeast Texas on Friday, additional periods of rain and a few strong thunderstorms may still occur. Another threat to the U.S. is Hurricane Jeanne. Jeanne is a strong Category 2 hurricane with sustained winds of 100 mph. On Thursday, Jeanne worked its way slowly to the west, closer to the east coast of Florida on Thursday. Jeanne could affect the Florida coastline, as well as coastal areas to the north, during the weekend. The system could still intensify even more during the period.  A storm moved across the northern Plains on Thursday and brought a soaking rain to the Dakotas and Minnesota. A cold front extended southward from this storm across the central Plains into western Texas, where a couple of showers and thunderstorms developed along the front and brought an inch or two of rain near Midland and San Angelo. Chilly air funneled southward behind the front.  A large area of high pressure over the Northeast provided sunshine across most of the eastern U.S. Many areas experienced a warm day, which resulted in above-normal temperatures for this time of the year. The only areas of rain in the east were a couple of thunderstorms across South Florida.  Most of the West had a sunny and warm day as well. The exception was western Washington where clouds limited sunshine.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1926 Yellowstone, MT — Minus 9 degrees F., lowest for U.S. in September. Severe widespread frost with great crop destruction. Earliest snow in Spokane Co., Washington.  1985 Des Moines, IA — A few wet snow flakes...the earliest snow ever reported.  SEARCH		Submit GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE Submit CITY  STATE  COUNTRY  Submit  MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
