20050214
 Wayback Machine	  JAN	FEB	MAR Previous capture	14	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Sunday 3 P.M. Eastern  A large storm was over Missouri Sunday afternoon with a warm front reaching into the Ohio Valley and a cold front trailing into Texas. This system brought an area of rain from eastern parts of South Dakota and Nebraska southeastward through southern Minnesota, Iowa and northern Missouri into the Ohio and eastern Tennessee valleys, with the rain spreading northeastward to the southern Great Lakes. On the northern fringes of this rain was some mixed precipitation and some snow from eastern North Dakota to central Minnesota and Wisconsin and southern Michigan. As this moisture continues to spread northeastward Sunday afternoon and night, a wintry mix will develop in the northern and central Appalachians, then New England on Monday. Farther south, showers and thunderstorms wer over western Texas and Louisiana. Severe thunderstorms may have developed during the afternoon and evening over eastern Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas.  High pressure was in control over much of the East Coast Sunday, bringing some sunshine and seasonable temperatures. There was some snow over New England Saturday night/early Sunday.  In the West, there was a storm over the Pacific well off the northern California coast, and this system was spreading some rain ino northern California and extreme southern Oregon, with some rain and snow showers also extending into parts of the northern Rockies. The showers over the northern Rockies were in association with a cold front moving through. This front will be moving southeastward during the early and middle parts of the week, ushering in another shot of cold air behind it. There were also a few showers near the central and Southern California coasts. Over the remainder of the Southwest, a high brought some sun with seasonable temperatures.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1899 Gulf Coast — Very cold morning along Gulf Coast; New Orleans 6.8 deg.; Mobile -1 deg.; Pensacola 7 deg.; Tallahassee -2 deg (All time record for Florida. Brownsville 12 deg. (all time low).  1936 North Dakota — On this date the mercury plummeted to -60 deg. at Parshall, ND - the coldest temperature ever for the State of ND. Later the same year, the mercury soared to 121 deg. at Steele, ND - the hottest temperature ever for the state of ND.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps  
