20050716
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	16	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Saturday 3 P.M. Eastern  Today, for a wide area of the Northeast, the Midwest and right across the south, there has been no meaningful break in a spate of high humidity that followed the break up of Hurricane Dennis. And once again, the steamy air was fostering widely-separated showers and drenching thunderstorms, but with rainfall too spotty to afford any far-reaching dent in what has become for some a serious summer drought. Westward from Illinois and Wisconsin, meantime, widespread sunshine has led it to become downright hot with 90s the rule and 100s not unknown over a wide area of the Midwest, the Great Plains and the foot of the central Rocky Mountains. In South Dakota, temperatures above 100 degrees threatened to set new record highs for the date. Farther north and west, a vigorous cold front sweeping east of the northern Rockies was kicking up strong, gusty winds eastward onto the northern Plains. There was also a gathering outbreak of strong, hit-or-miss thunderstorms in eastern Montana and western North Dakota. And while the wake of the cold front brught marked cooling throughout the Northwest, a withering heat wave held unbroken over the inland Southwest including the Great Basin. Temperatures were soaring towards the 110s in the Desert Southwest and the 100s over California's Great Valley. WIdespread low clouds and fog were lifting from the California coast which was once again spared by onshore flow.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1975 Raleigh, NC — Last of 11 consecutive days with measurable rain. Longest streak on record; total rainfall in the period, 6.18 inches.  1990 South Bend, IN — 1-3/4 inch diameter hail in a northern section of the city.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
