20060706
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUL	AUG Previous capture	6	Next capture 2005	2006	2007 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Thursday 4 A.M. Eastern  As a cool front continued to slowly trek south and eastward from the lower Mississippi Valley to New England on Wednesday, drenching periods of rain and strong thunderstorms were squeezed out of the humid air along the boundary. The heavy rain in Amarillo, Texas, shattered its daily rainfall record. Some of the thunderstorms that erupted produced damaging winds and a couple of hail reports. Also ahead of the front, widespread showers and thunderstorms continued to drench southeastern Texas and Louisiana as more tropical moisture streamed into the region and an upper-level storm system remained overhead. Meanwhile, in the wake of the cool front, an area of high pressure promoted a pleasant and mostly sunny day across the Great Lakes and the northern and central Plains. The Rockies, however, remained active as moisture streaming northward once again sparked showers and thunderstorms across the region, mainly during the afternoon hours. Numerous showers and thunderstorms also occurred from northern Utah and northeastern Nevada to western Montana as an upper-level disturbance passed overhead during the day. Energy feeding in from the Pacific Ocean also triggered showers and thunderstorms over Washington and Oregon; penny- to golf ball-sized hail fell from some of the stronger thunderstorms. A few thunderstorms also ignited over the mountains of California; otherwise, sunshine dominated the state; low clouds and fog, however, were found along parts of the coast in the morning.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1928 Potter, NE — Famous Potter Hailstorm: one stone measured 5.5" in diameter, 17" in circumference, and weighted 1.5 lb. "Largest officially recorded".  1981 Saylersville, KY — Over 5 inches of rain in 36 hours; 9 feet of water in parts of the town; people evacuated.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
