20050723
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	23	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Saturday 3 P.M. Eastern  Along the middle and lower Mississippi River and across the southern two-thirds of the Great Plains, this has been another day of stifling heat made much worse by steam bath humidity. Temperatures have soared to between 95 and 105 degrees as of early to mid afternoon. Where the highest humidity has teamed with the intense heat, apparent temperatures have reached life-threatening levels  110 to 120 degrees. Where the northern rim of this heat has intersected the jet stream, a few strong thunderstorms have erupted over the easternmost Dakotas, Minnesota, Wisconsin and northern Illinois. In marked contrast, dry and moderately warm air has flowed southward and throughout the Northeast today affording fine weather for the height of summer. Across the South, there has been no break in the steamy heat, other than that stemming ever so briefly from sparingly-scattered thunderstorms. Far to the east of Florida, Tropical Storm Franklin has persisted in its drift towards the northeast. Far to the south, a strong tropical wave shifted off Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula to the Bay of Campeche, where it posed slight odds of becoming a named tropical storm. In the West, moisture in part tied to the dissipated Hurricane Emily fostered clouds and hit-or-miss thunderstorms over the Desert Southwest and into the central and southern Rockies. This moisture help to usher in, however belatedly, the summer rains, also known as the summer "monsoon". Elsewhere in the West, the weather was bright and sunny aside from any coastal clouds.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1788 Mid-Atlantic Ocean — (22nd-24th) George Washington Hurricane; After causing ship disasters off SW Bermuda, the storm moved NW over Tidewater, NC and VA to pass right over George Washington's Mt. Vernon plantation. On July 24th, George Washington wrote in his diary: "About noon the wind suddenly shifted from NE to SW and blew the remaining part of the day violently from that quarter. The tide this time rose near higher than it was ever known to do, driving boats, etc. into fields, where no tide had ever been heard of before, and most, it is apprehended, having done infinite damage on their wharves at Alexandria, Norfolk, Baltimore, etc. At home all day."  1975 Canton, IL — A tornado ripped through a 3-block section of downtown, killing 2 people, injuring 75 and creating $5 million damage. A 15-food wooden plank was driven through an auto engine block, splitting the front of the car in two. The woman driving was not injured. National Guardsmen were called in to prevent looting.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
