20051130
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	30	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Monday 3 P.M. Eastern  The storm that produced a blizzard across the northern Plains Monday is now churning northward toward the James Bay in Canada. The cold front associated with this storm is being dragged toward the East Coast this afternoon. Ahead of the front gusty southerly winds are lifting warm, moist air northward. This unusual late-November warm surge has managed to establish a few record high temperatures. The main focus of this front is a band of heavy rain moving through the Northeast. Farther south, a few thunderstorms are beginning to form as cooler air behind the front undercuts warm, moist air over the Southeast. High pressure is settling in over the southern Plains where temperatures have fallen back to more seasonable levels. This is not the case across the northern Plains where temperatures are struggling to climb into the teens and 20s as arctic air spills southward out of central Canada. In the West, a new storm system is moving into the intermountain region of the Northwest. This system has brought significant amounts of rain to northern California and is now producing snow showers from the Cascades to the northern Rockies. The best weather in the nation is occurring over the Southwest where temperatures are rising into the 60s and low 70s with abundant sunshine.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1945 New England — Severe "nor'easter" in New England - winds in Boston averaged 40.5 mph over a 24-hour period. The rain changed to snow which accumulated to 16 inches in interior New England. Thirty-tree deaths were attributed to the storm.  1972 Northeast 1972 November — was one of the wettest on record for the Northeastern U.S. As of the 27th, NYC had its wettest November ever with 11.36 inches. This broke the old record of 9.97 inches. Binghamton, NY, had a monthly total of 7.11 inches -- the wettest November in the 75-year history of record keeping at Broome County Airport. Binghamton also had 19.4 inches of snow -- exactly a foot above normal.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
