20050829
 Wayback Machine	  JUL	AUG	SEP Previous capture	29	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Sunday 3 P.M. Eastern  The big story this afternoon is Hurricane Katrina as the category 5 storm, packing sustained winds of 175 mph, churns northward toward the lower Mississippi delta of Louisiana. Hurricane warnings are posted from Morgan City, LA to the Alabama-Florida state line. Weather conditions will begin to deteriorate along the central Gulf coastline toward evening as the leading bands of thunderstorms and gusty winds start to move onshore along with rough surf conditions. The eye of the storm should make landfall on the Louisiana coast within a few hours of noon on Monday. While on a slightly different path, this will be the worse storm to strike this region since Hurricane Camille in 1969. Elsewhere, a slow-moving cold front is stalling out from the Northeast through the Ohio Valley into the southern Plains. Along this frontal boundary, showers are dampening the Northeast, while thunderstorms rumble in the southern Plains. North of the front, nice weather with plenty of sunshine can be found from the Great Lakes to the northern Plains. Out west, the heat continues to build in the Southwest deserts with afternoon temperatures in the 100s and 110s. A light offshore flow is helping to boost temperatures into the upper 80s and low 90s near the the Southern California coast. Farther north a cold front is approaching the Pacific Northwest. This front will bring a bit of rain west of the Cascades tonight and tomorrow, but the weather will remain dry to the east where a drought has been occurring much of this year. The biggest impact from the front will be lower temperatures early this week.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1979 Rochester, MN — 2.73 inches of rain fell in 50 minutes making this the wettest August on record. (9.52 inches of rain so far this month). The heavy downpour flooded the streets of Rochester, stranding about 1,500 cars.  1979 Midwest — A five-state tornado outbreak in Nebraska, Kansas, Wyoming, Iowa and Missouri occurred on this date. In all, 20 tornadoes were reported. Nine were in Iowa. One near Farragut, IA, in the extreme SW corner of the state, caused several fatalities and numerous injuries.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
