20050602
 Wayback Machine	  APR	JUN	JUL Previous capture	2	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Wednesday 3 P.M. Eastern  Rain and strong thunderstorms continue to soak the Southeast as a storm system near the Gulf Coast ever so slowly churns eastward toward the panhandle of Florida. The heaviest rain is falling in Florida where Fort Myers picked up over 5 inches of rain the past 24 hours. Rain is trying to move northward into the Carolinas and Tennessee Valley, but is having a hard time progressing due to dry air surging southward from a large area of high pressure over New England. In the Plains, the remnants of a supercell thunderstorm complex is moving off the southeast coast of Texas. This storm left a path of heavy rain, extremely large hail and isolated tornados across the western and central portions of the Lone Star State last night and early this morning. A few showers are falling across the nation's heartland as a cold front begins to die out. Another area of low pressure is moving out of the northern Rockies and will trigger a new round of thunderstorms in the northern Plains later today and tonight. Behind the storm, showers continue to dampen the northern Rockies and are also scattered across the Northwest as yet another cold front moves through. The best weather can be found across the Southwest with plenty of sunshine and warm temperatures. The Northeast does not look too bad, but a few showers will pop up in the higher elevations this afternoon.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1812 New Haven, CT — Latest blossoming of apple trees during this period (1794/1985).  1980 Falmouth, ME — Man hit by lightning; sight that he lost in a previous accident in 1971 miraculously restored.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
