20040829
 Wayback Machine	  JUL	AUG	OCT Previous capture	29	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		Submit  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Thursday 4 A.M. Eastern  High pressure from Maine to North Carolina permitted sunshine across New England and much of the mid-Atlantic on Wednesday.  A series of disturbances moved across the Midwest and Great Lakes into eastern Canada on Wednesday. These disturbances triggered several rounds of showers and strong to severe thunderstorms from northeast Kansas to southern Michigan. A persistent southerly flow supplied the warm and moist fuel for this activity through the day and into Wednesday night. A tornado touched down in Kansas, while central Missouri and Illinois had to deal with large hail and thunderstorm wind damage in the most intense thunderstorms. Locally heavy rain from these showers and thunderstorms became a problem across the Midwest. Between 1.50-2.00 inches of rain fell in parts of Missouri, Iowa and Illinois.  Parts of the Southeast and Gulf Coast, particularly in Louisiana, Alabama and Florida, experienced a couple of rounds of showers and strong thunderstorms. A funnel cloud developed to the southwest of Tampa, Florida. Much of the activity developed along a stationary front that stretched across the Southeast.  A potent storm system moved out of the Northern Rockies and pushed across the Northern Plains on Wednesday. This system triggered a couple of strong-to-severe thunderstorms across North Dakota and Minnesota. A tornado touched down near Minot, North Dakota.  Some storm energy pushed onshore of the Pacific Northwest on Wednesday. This energy produced a couple of thunderstorms, as well as locally heavy rain across Oregon, Washington and Idaho. There was even a few tornadoes that touched down in Idaho.  Despite an area of low pressure to the north, the Desert Southwest was quiet with plenty of warmth.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1979 Rochester, MN — 2.73 inches of rain fell in 50 minutes making this the wettest August on record. (9.52 inches of rain so far this month). The heavy downpour flooded the streets of Rochester, stranding about 1,500 cars.  1979 Midwest — A five-state tornado outbreak in Nebraska, Kansas, Wyoming, Iowa and Missouri occurred on this date. In all, 20 tornadoes were reported. Nine were in Iowa. One near Farragut, IA, in the extreme SW corner of the state, caused several fatalities and numerous injuries.  SEARCH		Submit GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE Submit CITY  STATE  COUNTRY  Submit  MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
