20060407
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	APR	MAY Previous capture	7	Next capture 2005	2006	2007 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Friday 4 A.M. Eastern  The weather was very active across the midsection of the nation on Thursday as a storm system over the central Plains slowly moved eastward. Warm, humid air flowing northward out of the Gulf of Mexico collided with cooler, Canadian air over the Great Plains, fueling damaging thunderstorms over a rather widespread area. Strong, damaging thunderstorms developed from Minnesota southward to Texas, with the most severe storms occurring in eastern Kansas. At least 19 tornadoes were spawned, in addition to over 150 reports of large hail. Farther east, heavy rain fell along the storm's warm front across much of the Ohio Valley. Over 3 inches of rain fell in parts of Illinois that was inundated with showers and thunderstorms over much of the day. Behind the storm, a steady rain fell across the Dakotas and Montana. In the highest elevations of western Montana, heavy snow fell, with over a foot in some places. Snow and rain showers also fell across western Colorado for a good portion of the day. Meanwhile, conditions were dry along the West Coast, with plenty of sunshine across Southern California and the Desert Southwest. The Northeast was generally milder than recent days with sunshine and a few clouds. However, it remained chilly across eastern Maine, where a few snow showers fell, mainly in the morning hours. On the contrast, it was rather warm across Florida, where temperatures reached the middle 80s amid a good deal of sunshine.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1748 Portland, ME — 5-1/2 feet of snow on the ground, according to the Rev. T. Smith  1983 El Paso, TX — 16.5" snow (4th-7th) easily set new record for April (old record only 2.0").  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
