20050207
 Wayback Machine	  JAN	FEB	MAR Previous capture	7	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Sunday 3 P.M. Eastern  A storm system in the Plains brought rain to many areas in this region this morning and this afternoon. As colder air worked in behind the system, some of the rain mixed with and changed to snow on the northern and western side of the storm in Nebraska, northwestern Kansas, northwestern Iowa, southeastern Minnesota and northwestern Wisconsin. The heaviest rain was found in central and eastern Kansas this morning. Another storm system was just off the Pacific Northwest coastline and it brought rain and mountain snow to western Washington, western Oregon, and northern California this morning and this afternoon. Farther eastward, some flurries fell in the mountains of northern Nevada. A large area of high pressure dominated the weather along the Eastern Seaboard on Saturday morning and Saturday afternoon along with mild temperatures. Temperatures in the mid-Atlantic along with southern and central New England were climbing into the 40s and 50s this afternoon. High pressure also dominated the weather in the northern Great Plains this afternoon along with chilly temperatures.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1936 Iowa — Severe blizzard conditions over all of Iowa in toughest modern winter. East Coast 1978 Massive Northeaster buried East Coast cities - 18 in. NYC, 16 in. Philadelphia, 14 in. Baltimore. Referred to as the blizzard of '78. It was the worst winter storm in coastal New England history. Mounuament surf from hurricane force winds battered the coastline. Boston 27.2 in. snow, near 50 in. in NW Rhode Island. 75 deaths. $500 million damage.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps  
