20060406
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	APR	MAY Previous capture	6	Next capture 2005	2006	2007 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Thursday 4 A.M. Eastern  A quick-moving storm blasted through the Northeast on Wednesday, bringing a variety of weather to the region. Showers of rain and snow moved across Pennsylvania, Maryland, New Jersey, New York and into New England. Accompanying these showers were strong, gusty winds. Winds gusted as high as 60 mph along the coast of New Jersey. In addition, thunder and lightning accompanied some of the showers as well. Although the precipitation was brief, it fell down quick enough to accumulate several inches, especially in the higher terrain. There were even isolated reports of up to 6 inches across the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania. Behind the storm, winds continued to be quite gusty. The strong winds, along with the unseasonably cold temperatures, made it feel more like early March, instead of early April across the region. Meanwhile, another storm continued to affect much of the western United States. Heavy rain and mountain snow fell across the Great Basin and Rocky Mountain states. Up to a foot of new snow fell in the mountains of Utah. Winds also gusted over 40 mph across much of Utah and Colorado. Thunderstorms broke out across Wyoming, which brought wind damage to a few areas. Farther east, thunderstorms developed late in the evening across Missouri and Illinois. Hail was reported with some of these storms, even enough to cover the ground in a few areas. Across western Texas, temperatures were very warm. Highs reached the upper 80s and low 90s across the region, which is up to 20 degrees above normal.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1843 Bangor, ME — 15" of snow from final storm in a record snowy winter. Depth on ground was 60".  1936 Gainesville, FL — Tornado killed 203, injured 934, $13 million damage. Business section almost wiped out; twister cut path four blocks wide through downtown. Seventy of the fatalities occurred in one factory.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
