20051013
 Wayback Machine	  SEP	OCT	NOV Previous capture	13	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Wednesday 3 P.M. Eastern  A storm moving slowly northward just off the East Coast is pulling tropical moisture northward and producing heavy rain today across New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania and southern New England. Some locations have already had over 4 inches of rain since last evening. The rain will continue, heavy at times, tonight and Thursday and expand northward a bit across New England. Most of this area already has saturated ground from recent rainfall, and the current rain will cause serious flooding problems. Also, the pressure difference between the storm and strong high pressure over eastern Canada is producing strong, gusty winds along the coast from the New England coast southward to Virginia. Elsewhere across the East and Great Lakes, widespread low clouds cover a large area with spotty showers and drizzle. The cloud cover is keeping daytime temperatures unseasonably low for the middle of October. A weak storm crossing the northern Plains is producing a few showers across the eastern Dakotas, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Iowa. A couple of showers are over southern Texas, while the rest of the south-central states are dry with some sunshine. A cold front approaching the Pacific Northwest is bringing rain to western Washington. The rest of the West is having dry weather with sunshine in most areas.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1954 Charlotte, NC — 90.0 degrees, latest 90 degree temperature.  1988 Southern Ontario — Up to one foot of snow fell in parts of Southern Ontario. Power was knocked out at Alliston, north of Toronto. Tree branches sprang up as the snow melted and snapped power lines.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
