20060611
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	AUG Previous capture	11	Next capture 2005	2006	2007 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Sunday 4 A.M. Eastern  Saturday had a plethora of weather events around the country.  A storm system, taking its time to move northeast across New England, produced heavy rain from Vermont to Maine. A few areas received between 2 and 3 inches of rain on Saturday. Temperatures were cooler than normal, as well.  A gusty northwest breeze occurred on the backside of the storm from New York and Pennsylvania to Maryland and Virginia, as an area of high pressure built in from the northwest.  A nearly stationary front from North Carolina to Iowa became the focal point of several batches of heavy showers and strong to severe thunderstorms on Saturday. Very heavy rain over a short period of time and walnut- to tennis ball-sized hail accompanied the most intense thunderstorms. Most of these storms occurred in parts of Kansas, Missouri and Illinois. There were even a few tornadoes and a funnel cloud in parts of the Midwest. Rain amounts Friday night through Saturday evening averaged 1 to 2.5 inches.  A ridge of high pressure from the southern Rockies to the Gulf Coast states on Saturday provided blistering sunshine and excessive warmth, especially from Kansas to Texas. Central and southern Oklahoma had locations break their old record-high temperatures for the day. Most areas of Texas from the Red River to the Rio Grande came within 2 to 4 degrees of tying or breaking the record-high temperatures.  Weak high pressure over the Desert Southwest provided dry and warm weather on Saturday.  A storm system and its associated warm front sparked a couple of heavy showers and a strong thunderstorm or two from northeastern Washington to North and South Dakota.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1938 Wyoming — Remarkable hailstorm left hail a foot deep over an area about 10 by 30 miles. Drifts up to 5 feet formed as well. Reports of hail still on the ground in protected areas a month later.  1984 Rowena, SD — Powerful thunderstorm downburst estimated at 160 mph blows a house away, killing 2 people. Debris was blown several miles downwind.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
