20050605
 Wayback Machine	  APR	JUN	JUL Previous capture	5	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Saturday 3 P.M. Eastern  Plenty of clouds continue to cover much of Florida and the Southeast coast this afternoon. Under this cloud cover, showers and thunderstorms, with heavy downpours, will keep the region very wet as a weak tropical low pressure system moves up the eastern Gulf of Mexico, just off the coast of Florida. Elsewhere, the nation's midsection will be under the gun this afternoon as a low pressure system over the northern Plains drags a cold front through the region. Ahead of the front, very warm and moist air is surging northward into the upper Midwest. A thunderstorm watch is in effect from northern Illinois into Wisconsin and additional watch boxes are likely to be issued farther west from Minnesota to Kansas and Oklahoma. The line of thunderstorms racing into the Upper Midwest is the same line of thunderstorms that brought heavy rain, damaging winds, and even a few tornadoes to the Kansas City and surrounding areas around dawn this morning. This storm system will continue to produce severe weather in the heartland right through tomorrow. The rain has stopped fall in in the Northeast, but warmer and more humid air is beginning to move into the region. Sunday will be the first true taste of summer weather for folks in the Northeast. Out west, heavy rain continues to fall in the west-central Rockies, but the rain should gradually shift to the northeast as the day progresses. The rest of the West is dry, but a storm system in the northern Pacific will influence the Northwest later tonight and Sunday. The Southwest will be warm and dry, with the exception of the Southern California coast where a deep marine layer will keep it cloudy and cool right through the weekend.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1825 East Coast — Early season hurricane from Cuba to New England. Great shipping losses on the coast. Much damage at Charleston on the 3rd and New York Harbor on the 4th.  1985 Southeast — Heat wave continued in the Southeast. Lakeland, FL, set an all-time record high of 102 degrees.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
