20060105
 Wayback Machine	  DEC	JAN	FEB Previous capture	5	Next capture 2005	2006	2007 609 captures 9 Feb 02 - 24 Jul 13  sparklines Close Help  SEARCH		  TODAY'S HIGHS  TONIGHT'S LOWS  CURRENT CONDITIONS NATIONWIDE Wednesday 3 P.M. Eastern  A storm system moving out of the central Great Lakes toward New England is producing a bit of snow and rain from the Upper Midwest to New York this afternoon. Cold air filtering down from the north will gradually expand the snow/rain line farther south tonight allowing a band of 1-3 inches of snow to fall from the northern Great Lakes through New England tonight. Localized amounts will be as high as 6 inches. Elsewhere, much of the nation is dry with the exception of a few snow showers in the central and northern Rockies. A cold front slicing through the south-central states is trying to kick off a few showers, but dry air is winning the battle and the front is only producing dangerous winds that could help to fan wildfires. Ahead of the cold front, mild air is surging northward from the Gulf Coast to the Ohio River Valley, while cooler air filters into the central Plains. The coldest air remains locked up in Canada, but is starting to push southward into the northern Plains. Eventually, this cold air mass will plunge southward east of the Mississippi Valley later this week. Out West, the weather is dry, allowing folks to clean up from the recent flooding. A high pressure builds in, the sky is clearing and the weather is warming across southern California. The same cannot be said for the Pacific Northwest coast where clouds are moving in ahead of another band of rain that will reach the coast of Washington tonight.  WEATHER ALMANAC 1946 N.E. Texas — Tornado swarm; 30 die, $2.7 million damage.  1971 New York, NY — DC-3 crash at LaGuardia caused by wind shear injures three.  SEARCH		 GET YOUR WEATHER Type in your zip code, or city, state or country for your current conditions and five day forecast. ZIP CODE  CITY  STATE  COUNTRY    MAPS  World Maps  U.S. Maps  Allergy Maps  Other Maps 
