20050306
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	MAR	APR Previous capture	6	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Sunday, March 6, 2005, 12:35AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories 10 Ways to Live Longer Forbes.com From not oversleeping to getting a pet, these are simple, practical things you can do to increase your chances of living a long, healthy life. The A to Z of De-Stressing Forbes.com From acupuncture to zen, here are 26 ways to reduce stress, relax, and feel better. The Bathroom Goes High-Tech The Wall Street Journal Online Get ready for showers that know how hot you like your water and toothbrush holders that zap germs with ultraviolet light.  Test Drive: 2005 Audi A4 Forbes.com Forbes takes a spin in Audi's completely overhauled A4, its most popular model in America.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,940.55	+107.52	(+0.99%) Nasdaq	2,070.61	+12.21	(+0.59%) S&P 500	1,222.12	+11.65	(+0.96%) 10-Yr Bond	4.31%	-0.07 NYSE Volume	1,634,531,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,840,245,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Top Stories Investors Learning to Accept Oil Prices Sat 10:18PM  ET - Associated Press The Middle East is much more stable than it was last year, but the so-called terror premium on oil prices remains. Some analysts blame hedge speculators, while others say the soaring costs are justified by short supplies and rising demand from Asia. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Prison May Have Helped Stewart's Image - Associated Press · 	No Companies to Buy in 2004, Buffett Says - Associated Press · 	Chavez: Low Oil Rates a Thing of the Past - Associated Press · 	Senate to Vote on Minimum Wage Proposals - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article My Wife Stole My Identity! Bankrate.com The usual precautions don't work when your spouse already has your personal information and can secretly run up credit card debt in your name, says the Debt Adviser.  Investing Ideas Three Stocks You Need To Know About For Monday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Here's A Stock That Has Potential In Spite Of A Lackluster Market TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry finds a good-looking pullback. The Fool's Look Ahead Motley Fool Heroes, zeros, and TiVos will lead the way in the week of earnings that lies ahead. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Mercy Hospital Foundation Receives $50,000 Donation Through the CRESTOR(R) Charity Challenge at PGA TOUR's Ford Championship at Doral Sat 10:22PM ET - PR Newswire 12,328 Total Winners With No Jackpot Winner(s) in Tonight's WINFALL Drawing Sat 9:05PM ET - PR Newswire Troubled Airlines in for More Costs Sat 8:50PM ET - Reuters more Popular Stories...     Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance What Mistakes Do Mortgage Shoppers Make?  Mortgage Professor Q: I am about to shop the mortgage market. Can you give me a handy list of the mistakes I need to avoid? See also: Mortgage Help | Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following mistakes or infractions have you committed on a past tax return? 	Deducted reimbursed work expenses 	Underreported income (tips, etc.) 	Used a trust to conceal income or assets 	More than one of the above 	None of the above   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
