20040703
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUL	AUG Previous capture	3	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Saturday, July 3 2004 3:51am ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,282.83	-51.33	(-0.50%) Nasdaq	2,006.66	-8.89	(-0.44%) S&P 500	1,125.38	-3.56	(-0.32%) 10-Yr Bond	4.458%	-0.106	  NYSE Volume	1,082,635,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,207,124,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Job Growth Slows, Workweek Shrinks Fri 5:16pm ET - Reuters U.S. job growth slowed sharply in June as employers cut the pace of new hiring after several months of robust gains and trimmed the workweek, the government reported on Friday. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Sat 1:33am ET The major indices picked up where they left off yesterday (down), although their losses were not nearly as large (-0.3% to -0.5%)... The June employment report proved to be disappointing to investors, although upon reflection, its numbers seemed to carry some positive implications for the market...more Featured Article	 IPOs Hit 4-Year High In Q2 As U.S. Economy Firmed Investor's Business Daily The number of companies going public surged to a four-year high in the second quarter, as investors and venture capitalists grew more confident in the strong economic and jobs recovery... more Investor's Business Daily... Money Matters House Rules: How to Decide If It's Time to Own Rather Than Rent by Suze Orman Home ownership is the greatest AMERICAN DREAM, is it not? But listen up, my friends: If you do not have a clue what it really costs to own a home, how much of a house you can truly afford, and if you are just plain capable of owning a home, I am here to tell you that your dream will most likely turn into your greatest financial nightmare. more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Stocks End Lower for Second Day in a Row Sat 12:53am ET - Reuters Stocks ended lower for the second day in a row on Friday, after a report showing job growth in June was less than half of what Wall Street expected prompted investors, wary of an economic slowdown, to sell shares of cyclical stocks like Caterpillar Inc. · 	Burger King CEO Blum Leaves · 	Indictment of Enron's Lay Seen Next Week · 	Pressure on GM, Ford After Weak Sales · 	Boston Scientific Recalls 200 Stents more business news... Investing Ideas Ceradyne Bulks Up Motley Fool The technical ceramics maker broadens its horizons again. You've Got A Profit!, Now What? TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry gives a short lesson on money management. Sun Sets Big Goals For Java Upgrade Investor's Business Daily Sun Microsystems hopes to broaden Java's appeal with an overhaul that gives the platform more power and speed. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Funds on Yahoo! Finance Why Exchange-Traded Funds? ETFZone Exchange-Traded Funds, or ETFs, are index funds that trade just like stocks on major stock exchanges. Want to invest in the market quickly and cheaply? ETFs are the most practical vehicle...More  See also: Top-Performing ETFs My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Nancy and Sally each invest $1,000 in 1901, 50% in US bonds and 50% in the S&P 500. Sally rebalances annually to maintain a 50-50 target allocation into stocks and bonds. Nancy never rebalances. Ignoring taxes, at the end of 2001 how do their investments compare? 	Nancy has three times as much as Sally 	Nancy has twice as much as Sally 	Nancy has 50% more than Sally 	About the same 	Sally has 50% more than Nancy      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
