20050315
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	MAR	APR Previous capture	15	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Monday, March 14, 2005, 8:56PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,804.51	+30.15	(+0.28%) Nasdaq	2,051.04	+9.44	(+0.46%) S&P 500	1,206.83	+6.75	(+0.56%) 10-Yr Bond	4.516%	-0.02 NYSE Volume	1,443,036,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,730,181,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Top Stories Saudi Urges 2 Percent Rise in Oil Output Mon 6:34PM  ET - Associated Press Saudi Arabia's advocacy of a 2 percent increase to OPEC's output target failed to calm oil markets Monday, though it appeared to reflect growing concern within the cartel about the effect high prices could have on the global economy. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Mon 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Stocks Post Modest Gains Despite Worries - Associated Press · 	Philip Morris Bids $5B for Indonesian Co. - Associated Press · 	Where Will New CEO Iger Lead Disney? - Associated Press · 	Ford CEO, Chair Gets $18M Stock Package - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Beat the Market	Provided by Investor's Business Daily Visit each Monday for "Beat the Market" New!  Beat the Market10 Highest-Rated Home Building Stocks Investor's Business Daily searched this impressive industry for the 10 home builders with the best earnings growth and price performance.   Featured Article Buffett's Tips: Don't Overtrade, or Panic Associated Press One of the most widely read dispatches in the investment world may be Warren Buffett's annual letter to the shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway. In this year's edition, the man known as the Oracle of Omaha offered two tips for small investors.  Money Matters Suze OrmanBecause Social Security Won't Cut It by Suze Orman I want to remind you that, Social Security is still intended only to provide a safety net to keep people from sliding into poverty in their later years. It is not, and was never meant to be, the central part of a retirement package... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Four Stocks You Need To Know About For Tuesday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Lex: Philip Morris/Sampoerna FT.com Enthusiasts praise kreteks, Indonesia's clove cigarettes, as the aromatic soul of their nation. Sickeningly sweet might be a more accurate description of their smell. But whether one smokes them or hates them, there is no denying that kreteks penetrate every corner of the giant archipelago. Lex: Walt Disney FT.com Michael Eisner is, in his own words, finally "re-stocking his Mickey Mouse backpack" to strike out for adventures outside Walt Disney. But the media group's board has failed to seize the opportunity for a clean break. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Republic Airways Holdings Announces Agreement with US Airways for the Commitment to Affirm Chautauqua Airlines Jet Service Agreement Mon 8:17PM ET - Business Wire US Airways Obtains Second $125 Million Equity Commitment for Plan of Reorganization Mon 8:00PM ET - PR Newswire National Semiconductor to Sell PC Super I/O Business Mon 7:40PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...     Streaming Real-Time Quotes ·	Track your portfolio with streaming quotes from NYSE, NASDAQ and AMEX ·	Access real-time charts and screeners ·	Get the latest market news and upgrade/ downgrade updates ·	Access your real-time quotes across Yahoo! Finance and My Yahoo! Free 2 week Trial Learn More  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. What percentage of U.S. households have a minimum net worth of $1mm? 	3% 	7% 	10% 	13%   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
