20050108
 Wayback Machine	  DEC	JAN	FEB Previous capture	8	Next capture 2003	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, January 8, 2005, 4:35AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories What We Can't Wait to Drive in 2005 Forbes.com What really sets auto-lovers' hearts racing is the thought of driving the newest, coolest cars. These are the 10 cars we're most excited to test in 2005. With Market Hot, More People Now Have Third Homes The Wall Street Journal Online Thanks in large part to record-low interest rates on mortgages and the rapid appreciation of real-estate prices, more people are picking up third homes. From Kitsch to Retro-Chic, Old Brands Have Renewed Appeal BusinessWeek Online Yesterday's familiar products get a fresh marketing jolt as businesses realize reviving them is easier than launching unknown names.  Where We Can't Wait to Go in 2005 Forbes.com January is typically a month of fresh starts. This year, our resolution is to plan trips to the places we most want to go in 2005.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,603.96	-18.92	(-0.18%) Nasdaq	2,088.61	-1.39	(-0.07%) S&P 500	1,186.19	-1.70	(-0.14%) 10-Yr Bond	4.285%	+0.013 NYSE Volume	1,474,119,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,206,100,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Top Stories WorldCom, Enron Ex-Chiefs to Pay Investors Fri 9:01PM  ET - Associated Press Ten former WorldCom directors will personally pay $18 million to compensate for investor losses from an accounting scandal that caused one of the largest bankruptcies in U.S. history. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	United Loses Court Ruling on Pilots' Deal - Associated Press · 	Hiring for 2004 Hits Five-Year High - Associated Press · 	Enron Directors Reach $168M Settlement - Associated Press · 	High Court to Review Arthur Andersen Case - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Be Smart About College Aid Eligibility Investor's Business Daily The new year marks the start of a crucial step in the process of seeking financial aid for college. It's the beginning of the annual season for submitting to the Education Department a Free Application for Federal Student Aid, known as FAFSA...  Investing Ideas Three Stocks You Need To Know About For Monday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Watch These 2 Stocks When The Selling Is Over TradingMarkets.com Tim Trubenbach gives you the names. Why It's Not Time To Buy TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry explains... more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories How to Protect Children in the Tsunami Zone - Keeping Children Safe from Exploitation Requires Action Now Sat 12:01AM ET - PR Newswire Emerson Poynter LLP Announces Investigation into Pfizer, Inc. Retirement Plans and Lead Plaintiff Deadline in Pfizer Securities Litigation -- PFE Fri 9:37PM ET - PrimeZone Media Network SENTIMENT JOURNAL: The Tape Turns Bearish, Frederic Ruffy Fri 9:31PM ET - Optionetics.com more Popular Stories...    Inside Yahoo! Finance Improve Your Credit Score  ConsumerInfo.com Credit scores can vary from month to month-even day to day, sometimes. This is because it is calculated based on the credit data available for you at the credit bureau on the day the score is requested by a lender.  See also: Today's Rates | Credit Center  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.What percentage of employees are looking for a new job? 	35% 	55% 	75% 	85%    (You'll also see how other users have answered.)    World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
