20050329
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	MAR	MAY Previous capture	29	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Monday, March 28, 2005, 11:10PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,485.65	+42.78	(+0.41%) Nasdaq	1,992.52	+1.46	(+0.07%) S&P 500	1,174.28	+2.86	(+0.24%) 10-Yr Bond	4.624%	+0.03 NYSE Volume	1,752,277,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,541,686,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Greenberg to Retire As Chairman of AIG Mon 11:08PM  ET - Associated Press Maurice "Hank" Greenberg will retire this week as chairman of American International Group Inc., ending a four-decade career with the insurance company as regulators investigate questionable financial transactions that occurred during his tenure. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Mon 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Sony Fined $90.7M in PlayStation Case - Associated Press · 	Stocks End Higher on Economic Optimism - Associated Press · 	Japan's Jobless Rate Climbs to 4.7 Percent - Associated Press · 	Consortium to Buy SunGard in $10.8B Deal - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Beat the Market Visit each Monday for "Beat the Market" New!  Beat the MarketTop-Rated Gaming Stocks Investor's Business Daily The stocks in IBD's Leisure-Gaming/Equipment industry group have nearly tripled since hitting a low in July 2002. These are the highest-rated of the bunch. Sponsored by:  Featured Article Say bye! Record low rates are gone Bankrate.com Seven interest rate hikes are now in the books, with the fed funds rate now up to 2.75 percent from the 40-year lows of 1 percent. So what are all these quarter-point interest rate moves adding up to? Money Matters logo.gifHow and Why to Be Your Own Financial Planner by Suze Orman We’ve become a nation addicted to contract labor. What past generations did for themselves, we now “outsource” to someone else. But we need to talk about one area of your personal life where I think it’s imperative for you to do as much of the work as possible: your finances. more Money Matters Topics... Sponsored by:  Investing Ideas Jousting with Jim Cramer MarketWatch SAN DIEGO -- Jim Cramer and I have been on-and-off sparring partners in various media outlets for going on eight years. More recently, we've been dueling back-and-forth on his new CNBC show, Mad Money, where you might say I'm something of the anti-Cramer. Inflationist hedging MarketWatch NEW YORK -- These are the times that try investment letters' theories. At least one inflationist is hedging, albeit short term. AIG shares rise on hints of progress in probe MarketWatch NEW YORK - The major indexes of U.S. financial stocks rose Monday afternoon as shares of AIG reversed earlier losses, pulling the S&P Insurance Index into positive territory along with the leading bank and brokerage indexes. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Greenberg to Retire As Chairman of AIG Mon 11:08PM ET - Associated Press Nortel Delivers New Communications Power to China Electricity and Water Utilities Mon 10:00PM ET - Business Wire AIG's Greenberg to Retire Within Days-WSJ Mon 9:38PM ET - Reuters more Popular Stories...     Yahoo! Finance Tax Center Have you done your taxes? Find help in our Tax Center!  Tips, tools, and guides to make filing fast and easy	17days90x80.jpg  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. How have the companies with the highest corporate governance ratings performed against the S&P Index over the last 5 years? 	-5.3% 	+3.1% 	+7.4% 	+15.9%   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
