20040926
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	26	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Sunday, September 26, 2004, 4:14AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Weekend Putting a Price on Happiness Forbes.com What makes people happy? Philosophers and psychologists have long pondered this question; now economists are mounting their own effort to measure contentment. Best of London Shopping Travel + Leisure Looking for the old guard or the avant-garde? From Knightsbridge to Notting Hill, Lynn Yaeger reveals 52 essential addresses for your next buying trip. Workouts -- Without the Work BusinessWeek Online You needn't pump iron for hours to get the benefits of exercise. Find out how to get the most out of your exercise routine -- and enjoy it.  The Real Wine Expert: You The Wall Street Journal Online Wine is too often presented as something sitting on a pedestal in the middle of a room. Luckily, Americans are getting past the snobbery. View Yahoo! Finance Weekend   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,047.24	+8.34	(+0.08%) Nasdaq	1,879.48	-6.95	(-0.37%) S&P 500	1,110.11	+1.75	(+0.16%) 10-Yr Bond	4.031%	+0.003 NYSE Volume	1,250,797,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,362,401,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Former Fox Studios Owner Marvin Davis Dies Sat 7:08PM  ET - Associated Press Billionaire Marvin Davis, a former oilman who sold his 20th Century Fox studios to Rupert Murdoch in the 1980s, died Saturday at his Beverly Hills home. He was 79. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:17 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Parmalat Founder's Sentence Almost Over - Associated Press · 	US Airways to Ask Court to Impose Pay Cut - Associated Press · 	Computer Associates Could See More Changes - Associated Press · 	Insurers Use Satellite Data to Study Risk - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Bonuses replace pay rises in big companies FT.com Large employers in the US are increasingly rewarding senior staff with one-off bonuses rather than permanent pay rises as they seek to avoid locking in unsustainable costs in uncertain times, according to research to be published next week...  Money Matters SuzeImage	Trusts Aren't Just for Millionaires by Suze Orman I know this isn't going to win me any awards for being Suze Sunshine, but we need to talk about death. Yours. More to the point: I want to talk to you about what you need to do now... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Finding Stocks for the Long Haul Morningstar.com Our criteria for a strong, long-term investment. It's the Same Old Pattern on the Dow RealMoney by TheStreet.com If this trend holds, Dan Fitzpatrick expects the next bottom around 9750. Also, charts of CVS and more. Samsung Semi Eyes Only Firm Above It Investor's Business Daily We're No. 2! We're No. 2! more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Elron Announces Special General Meeting of Shareholders on October 21, 2004 Sun 3:03AM ET - Business Wire Aga Khan Foundation U.S.A.: Thousands Expected at the Chicago Partnership Walk on September 26, 2004 to Help End Global Poverty Sat 11:00PM ET - Business Wire Verve Financial Solutions, Inc. Announces Head of Sales and Marketing Sat 9:16PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance What Mistakes Do Mortgage Shoppers Make?  Mortgage Professor Q: I am about to shop the mortgage market. Can you give me a handy list of the mistakes I need to avoid? See also: Mortgage Help | Today's Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.In 2003, how much money did individual citizens donate to the US Treasury to help reduce the public debt? 	$1.3M 	$10.7M 	$33.2M 	$41.9M    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
