20040925
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	25	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, September 25, 2004, 3:44AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Weekend Putting a Price on Happiness Forbes.com What makes people happy? Philosophers and psychologists have long pondered this question; now economists are mounting their own effort to measure contentment. Best of London Shopping Travel + Leisure Looking for the old guard or the avant-garde? From Knightsbridge to Notting Hill, Lynn Yaeger reveals 52 essential addresses for your next buying trip. Workouts -- Without the Work BusinessWeek Online You needn't pump iron for hours to get the benefits of exercise. Find out how to get the most out of your exercise routine -- and enjoy it.  The Real Wine Expert: You The Wall Street Journal Online Wine is too often presented as something sitting on a pedestal in the middle of a room. Luckily, Americans are getting past the snobbery. View Yahoo! Finance Weekend   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,047.24	+8.34	(+0.08%) Nasdaq	1,879.48	-6.95	(-0.37%) S&P 500	1,110.11	+1.75	(+0.16%) 10-Yr Bond	4.031%	+0.003 NYSE Volume	1,250,797,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,362,401,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Oil Prices Rise Again As Production Lags Sat 3:10AM  ET - Associated Press Oil prices neared $49 a barrel Friday, capping a rise of 7 percent for the week, as Gulf of Mexico crude production rebounded at a slower-than-expected rate in the wake of Hurricane Ivan. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Stocks Close Mixed to Cap Losing Week - Associated Press · 	Delta Stock Drops Amid Bankruptcy Fears - Associated Press · 	Demand for Durable Goods Drops in August - Associated Press · 	Stock Market's Woes Weigh on Mutual Funds - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Some Debt Is OK Motley Fool Not all debt is alike -- and not all debt is bad. It's very reasonable to carry a mortgage, a car loan, etc. You simply need to pay attention to the cost of the debt...  Money Matters SuzeImage	Trusts Aren't Just for Millionaires by Suze Orman I know this isn't going to win me any awards for being Suze Sunshine, but we need to talk about death. Yours. More to the point: I want to talk to you about what you need to do now. more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Diedrich Coffee's Little Spill Motley Fool The Starbucks competitor turned a full-year profit, but its cup could be warmer. PalmSource: Give or Take Motley Fool PalmSource cuts its losses in the first quarter, but lost business from Sony leaves the outlook uncertain. Market Takes Educate's Lunch Money Motley Fool Sylvan Learning Systems' owner goes public. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories CORRECTING and REPLACING SearchGuy.com Partners With Search123 Sat 2:36AM ET - Business Wire Kapalua and Miraval Join Forces to Create Hawai`i's First Destination Wellness Community Sat 12:00AM ET - Business Wire Investor Notice: Murray, Frank & Sailer LLP Announces Shareholder Lawsuit Against IAC/InterActiveCorp -- IACI Fri 11:59PM ET - PrimeZone Media Network more Popular Stories...    Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance 6 Strategies for Saving Money on Your Mortgage  Fool.com The key to saving money on your mortgage is to get the best possible mortgage for yourself. Sounds so obvious it's silly, right? But the point here is that you don't need to do it the way everyone else does.  See also: Today's Rates | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.In 2003, how much money did individual citizens donate to the US Treasury to help reduce the public debt? 	$1.3M 	$10.7M 	$33.2M 	$41.9M    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
