20050612
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	12	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, June 11, 2005, 9:23PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories Ten Things You're Never Too Old to Do Forbes.com Is there something you've been putting off learning, doing or seeing? Do you feel it's too late to try? Think again. Here are ten things you may think you're too old to do but, happily, you aren't. The Science of Hurricane Forecasts The Wall Street Journal Online Hurricane season has officially begun in the U.S. -- and so has the annual game of guessing how many of the violent storms we'll see this year. GM Plans a New Lineup of Vehicles The Wall Street Journal Online Under pressure to revive sales, General Motors is about to unleash a slew of new, better-looking vehicles.  What Apple’s Switch to Intel Chips Means for Users The Wall Street Journal Online What does Apple's move mean for the average consumer, who just wants the best computer for the job?    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,512.63	+9.61	(+0.09%) Nasdaq	2,063.00	-13.91	(-0.67%) S&P 500	1,198.11	-2.82	(-0.23%) 10-Yr Bond	4.047%	+0.08 NYSE Volume	1,670,367,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,462,390,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	108.68 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8250 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories G8 Agrees to Historic Debt-Relief Plan Sat 8:48PM  ET - AP The world's richest countries agreed Saturday on a historic deal to write off more than $40 billion of debt owed by the poorest nations. The debt relief package backed by finance ministers from the Group of Eight industrialized nations is part of a British-led effort to lift Africa out of poverty. · 	Greenspan Trying to Win Back Confidence AP · 	EU Urges Flexible Chinese Currency AP · 	Bond Market Baffles Many Observers AP · 	Saudi Questions Need for More Oil Output AP · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Can You Count on Your Company's Pension? Morningstar.com I have a friend who may be forced into retirement by her present employer. She has three options for her pension; the best seems to be taking the full single life annuity company pension. But we don't know how to evaluate if the company can maintain this annuity in the future.  Money Matters Your Credit Scores: What You Don't Know Can Hurt You by Suze Orman Your credit score is a lot like your cholesterol level. A good score means you are financially healthy; a bad score means you are seriously out of shape and at high risk for some serious problems... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Three Stocks You Need To Know About For Monday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. TECH WORLD: Nanotechnology Could Soon Be Everywhere, Jeff Neal Optionetics.com Life lessons for managing your money Bankrate.com Now that you are a professional and bringing home the semi-big bucks, it's tempting to live lavishly. Be wise. Here's how. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Contestants Win a Total of $247,500 on ''The Big Spin'' Show Sat 7:30PM ET - Business Wire Oklahoma's Ramsey Wins All-American Sat 6:37PM ET - PR Newswire Got Oil? Sat 6:24PM ET - ETFZone.com more Popular Stories...     Today's Mortgage Rates Mortgage Loan	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.15%	5.31% 15-yr Fixed	4.75%	4.99% 5/1 ARM	4.53%	5.55% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  Inside Yahoo! Finance What Factors Influence Your Credit Score?  Learn about the factors that are used to determine your score and the list of reasons that may be provided on why your score isn't higher.  See also: Credit Center  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. How much time do Americans spend commuting to work each year on average? 	50 hours 	100 hours 	200 hours 	350 hours   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
