20041215
 Wayback Machine	  NOV	DEC	JAN Previous capture	15	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Wednesday, December 15, 2004, 4:53AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 4 hours and 37 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,676.45	+38.13	(+0.36%) Nasdaq	2,159.84	+11.34	(+0.53%) S&P 500	1,203.38	0.00	(0.00%) 10-Yr Bond	4.132%	0.00 NYSE Volume	1,570,252,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,259,868,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Tax Guide,  Calculators...  Top Stories Google to Scan Books From Big Libraries Wed 3:36AM  ET - Associated Press Stacks of hard-to-find books are being scanned into Google Inc.'s widely used Internet search engine in its attempt to establish a massive online reading room for five major libraries. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Tue 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Japanese Manufacturers Less Upbeat - Associated Press · 	Yukos Files for Bankruptcy in U.S. - Associated Press · 	FCC Mulls Wireless Internet Access on Jets - Associated Press · 	Oil Futures Hold Ahead of U.S. Report - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Special Edition	Provided by Fast Company  Fast ForwardFast Forward 101 The future is something to get excited about again. Here are 101 ideas, people and trends that will change the way we work and live in 2005. more Special Editions...  Holiday Gift Guide fade Holiday Gift GuideWishful Thinking The world is getting smaller -- and so, too, is consumer technology. The best tech toys this year are all about size, weight, and sleek design. Here's our wishlist for the holidays.  Money Matters What's Your Financial Sign? by Suze Orman When It Comes to Money, Is Your Future a Horrorscope? Whether you believe in the guiding force of your astrological sign or not, I am here to tell you that you have a moneyscope... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Four Stocks You Need To Know About For Wednesday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Top Five Turnarounds for 2005 RealMoney by TheStreet.com Blockbuster, Aon and three others will see better days in the coming year, Arne Alsin says. Small-Cap Managers Scour Bargain Bin Morningstar.com Beaten-down stocks attract attention. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories The Dollar Dips Against the Euro Wed 4:05AM ET - Reuters Telefonica Moviles Espana Announces Licensing Agreement with Melodeo To Offer Music to Mobile Phone Users Wed 4:00AM ET - Business Wire WebTech Wireless to Provide CPR Intermodal Fleet Carriers Access to Real-Time Fleet Management Services Wed 4:00AM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...   Auto Loans on Yahoo! Finance How Much of Your Car Should You Finance? Bankrate.com Next to buying a home or funding your children's education, buying a car is the most expensive purchase you'll make. And car-related expenses, such as gas, maintenance and insurance, can take a big bite out of your wallet. See also: Auto Loan Help | Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.What is the historic average of the insider sell to buy ratio? 	1.5 	2.5 	3.5 	5.5    (You'll also see how other users have answered.)    World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
