20040721
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	21	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Wednesday, July 21 2004 3:02am ET - U.S. Markets open in 6 hours and 28 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,149.07	+55.01	(+0.54%) Nasdaq	1,917.07	+33.24	(+1.76%) S&P 500	1,108.67	+7.77	(+0.71%) 10-Yr Bond	4.448%	+0.087	  NYSE Volume	1,437,256,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,683,008,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Microsoft Plans $75 Billion Payout Tue 7:57pm ET - Reuters Microsoft Corp. , the world's No. 1 software maker, said on Tuesday it plans to return more than $75 billion in cash to shareholders over the next four years in the largest corporate payout ever. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Wed 1:28am ET Federal Reserve Chairman Greenspan testified before the Senate today that inflation is likely to remain low, and the GDP growth will accelerate this year, then ease a bit next year...he did not express great concern about rising inflationary pressures or the recent slowdown in consumer spending...more Featured Article	 10 ways being a smart driver saves you gas Bankrate.com Your bad driving habits could be costing you at the fuel pump. Following these driving tips will help you save money on gas... more Bankrate.com... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Greenspan Says U.S. Growth Solid Wed 1:13am ET - Reuters Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan on Tuesday said the U.S. economy has entered a sustainable expansion that should weather a June slowdown and is under no serious threat from inflation. · 	Asian Techs Rise, Greenspan Boosts Dollar · 	Dollar Extends Gains Vs Euro on Greenspan · 	Stocks Rise on Greenspan; Microsoft Up · 	Japan Almost Doubles Growth Forecast more business news... Investing Ideas Relief Rally! TradingMarkets.com Tim Truebenbach gives you a few stocks to watch in this bounce. Is Ebay A Buy? Optionetics.com Time To Make Your Short List TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry tells you why, and a few stocks to consider... more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Insurance on Yahoo! Finance The Facts of Life Smartmoney.com Dealing with agressive agents, wading through dense jargon, all while confronting your own mortality — buying life insurance is the Perfect Storm of unpleasant financial-planning chores. But don't fret. More...  See also: Life Insurance Calculators My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following products is NOT sold by a company that is one of the top ten IPO gainers in the last year? 	Biopharmaceuticals 	Chicken Wings 	Fuel Cells 	Fine Jewelry      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes...  World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
