20040616
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	16	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Wednesday, June 16 2004 3:49am ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 41 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,380.43	+45.70	(+0.44%) Nasdaq	1,995.60	+25.61	(+1.30%) S&P 500	1,132.01	+6.72	(+0.60%) 10-Yr Bond	4.686%	-0.184	  NYSE Volume	1,341,370,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,535,229,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Mandalay Agrees to Takeover by MGM Mirage Wed 1:52am ET - Reuters The board of casino operator Mandalay Resort Group agreed on Tuesday to a $4.8 billion takeover offer from MGM Mirage that would form the largest casino company in the world. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Wed 1:23am ET Although the market managed to close with gains (and sizeable ones in the case of the Nasdaq), the market's overall performance was not as impressive as many would've hoped considering the fact that the major averages closed well off their best levels of the day...more Featured Article	 Tech Officials Gear Up For Next Internet Investor's Business Daily Tech firms are marching toward the next-generation Internet, now that it has gotten a big boost from the Defense Department. But the trip will be a long one, fraught with some risks... more Investor's Business Daily... Money Matters Get with the Program, Mutual Funds are Way Too 20th Century by Suze Orman Can I ask you something? You don't use a Betamax to watch movies at home, do you? And your car isn't outfitted with an 8-track tape player, right?... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Nikkei Ends Up 2 Percent Wed 2:42am ET - Reuters Tokyo stocks advanced two percent on Wednesday to end at a seven-week high on relief that the U.S. Federal Reserve looks set to take a gradual rather than fast approach to raising interest rates. · 	Dollar Stuck Near 1-Wk Low Vs. Euro · 	Oil Down as Rising Supply Counters Attack · 	Oracle Profit Jumps on Database Sales · 	Fuel, Food Boosted Consumer Prices in May more business news... Investing Ideas Deal Has Military Supplier On The Offensive Investor's Business Daily It's not often a company goes from a $50 million business to a $250 million one in one fell swoop. Summer vacations cost brokers commissions CBS MarketWatch Might brokerage firms be another casualty of investors selling in May and going away? A Classic Interest-Sensitive Play Has Desensitized Itself To Rates Investor's Business Daily Countrywide Financial appears well positioned for a possible slowdown in refis. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Funds on Yahoo! Finance Why Exchange-Traded Funds? ETFZone Exchange-Traded Funds, or ETFs, are index funds that trade just like stocks on major stock exchanges. Want to invest in the market quickly and cheaply? ETFs are the most practical vehicle...More  See also: Top-Performing ETFs My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Multiply your age by your household income. Divide by 10. What does the resulting number mean? 	The maximum you should keep in a tax-deferred plan 	The total wages on which your Social Security benefits will be based 	A rough rule of thumb for what you'll need for retirement 	What your net worth should be today      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
