20040919
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	19	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, September 18, 2004, 8:57PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Weekend Smarter Cars Are Safer Cars BusinessWeek Online Baby boomers, representing 37% of car buyers, see safety as their No. 1 priority when purchasing family cars such as sedans, SUVs, and minivans. A wide range of technologies are heading to market to make cars both smarter and safer. Testing Tiny Digital Cameras The Wall Street Journal Online Just when you think you have the latest and greatest digital camera, an even cooler model comes out. Napa Valley, Reconsidered Travel + Leisure While you were away, this California gold mine has been quietly reinventing itself.  Fall Rental Guide 2004 Forbes.com The beauty of fall rentals is that the same properties cost less than in summer or ski season. View Yahoo! Finance Weekend   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,284.46	+39.97	(+0.39%) Nasdaq	1,910.09	+6.01	(+0.32%) S&P 500	1,128.55	+5.05	(+0.45%) 10-Yr Bond	4.127%	+0.058 NYSE Volume	1,422,636,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,654,935,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Hurricanes Have Investors Eyeing Insurers Sat 7:37PM  ET - Associated Press This year's hurricane season has many homeowners looking more closely at the fine print on their insurance policies, and many investors eyeing the impact on insurance stocks. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:05 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Hurricanes Take a Toll on Southern Crops - Associated Press · 	Schwarzenegger Vetoes Minimum Wage Bill - Associated Press · 	Iraqi Airways Resumes Int'l Flights - Associated Press · 	Alitalia Signs Deal With Attendants - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article They Need Us On That Wall Investor's Business Daily Iran: The Bush administration rightly says it won't tolerate Tehran arming itself with nuclear weapons. Europe doesn't like the idea either, but it's willing to let the U.S. do the dirty work -- then complain later...  Money Matters Protecting Your Money from Scammers and Spammers by Suze Orman My friends, you need to be more paranoid with your money. It's absolutely sickening how many people are losing big bucks by falling for online spamming scams and telemarketing schemes. Identity theft seems to be the fastest growing industry in the U.S... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Three Ways to Beat a Flat Market Forbes Magazine Rich Karlgaard offers three ways to beat a flat market. Et Tu, Nathan? Forbes Magazine Microsoft's former head techie takes on his old employer. Will Nasdaq, King Of The 1990s, Continue To Yield Big Winners? Investor's Business Daily Will the Nasdaq retain the biggest tech players and the best new issues? more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Leon Panetta to Address League Annual Conference in Long Beach Sat 8:25PM ET - Business Wire League of California Cities' Statement on Governor's Veto of SB 1056 Sat 8:25PM ET - Business Wire Contestants on ''The Big Spin'' Show Win More Than $360,000 Sat 7:30PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...    College Savings on Yahoo! Finance The ABCs of Saving For College  Kiplinger.com Whether college is 18 years away or right around the corner these strategies will help jump-start your college savings plans.  See also: 529 FAQs | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.In 2003, what was the estimated value of 'unclaimed assets' (lost & found items) held by states waiting to be claimed by individuals? 	$5bn 	$22bn 	$43bn 	$61bn    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
