20041119
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	19	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Thursday, November 18, 2004, 7:46PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,572.55	+22.98	(+0.22%) Nasdaq	2,104.28	+4.60	(+0.22%) S&P 500	1,183.55	+1.61	(+0.14%) 10-Yr Bond	4.117%	-0.027 NYSE Volume	1,458,684,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,983,378,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Stocks Rise Modestly on Jobless Claims Thu 5:30PM  ET - Associated Press Stocks rose modestly in uninspired trading Thursday as investors looked past a mix of economic data and falling profit forecasts from from Google Inc. and Applied Materials Inc. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Thu 4:25 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Leading Indicators Fall 0.3 Pct. in Oct. - Associated Press · 	Knight Steps Down As Nike CEO, President - Associated Press · 	Crude Oil Futures Prices Decline - Associated Press · 	U.S. Dollar Bounces Back Against Rivals - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Special Edition	 Provided by Forbes.com  vioxx8 Questions Merck Must Answer The withdrawal of Vioxx is the biggest drug recall ever. Congressional hearings begin today to probe whether the drug, which doubled the rate of heart attack and stroke in a clinical trial, should have been pulled sooner. more Special Editions...  Featured Article No Fast Filler for a Deep Trade Hole BusinessWeek Online The huge and growing trade deficit may be improved by the sliding U.S. dollar -- but not soon and not without lots of pain. Here's why...  Money Matters Split Decisions: How to Settle the Financial Issues When You Divorce by Suze Orman No matter what is going on in the economy or the world, you can pretty much count on the fact that 50 percent of the weddings today eventually end in divorce. Given those not-so-great marriage odds, I thought it would be smart to lay down the financial dos and don'ts of divorce... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas A Sector And A Stock That Look Poised To Go Higher TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry gives you a few stock ideas. 25 Pearls of Wisdom for Traders RealMoney by TheStreet.com Better your results with these market aphorisms from Alan Farley. The Upside of Falling Stocks Motley Fool It's not always a bad thing when the market tanks. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Marsh & McLennan: 5 Top Execs Leave Board Thu 7:19PM ET - Reuters FDA Approves Tarceva-TM- For Patients with Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Thu 7:17PM ET - Business Wire Novell Posts Profit Thu 7:00PM ET - Reuters more Popular Stories...   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Pay down HELOC or invest? Bankrate.com Q: I have a HELOC at an interest rate of 6.9 percent. I have saved some money to pay down the HELOC, but don't know if I should actually pay down the loan or use the money to invest in stock or other property. The HELOC interest is deductible.  See also: Today's Rates | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.Which group makes up a larger segment of the home-buying market? 	Single women 	Single men    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
