20040630
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	30	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Tuesday, June 29 2004 11:31pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,413.43	+56.34	(+0.54%) Nasdaq	2,034.93	+15.11	(+0.75%) S&P 500	1,136.20	+2.85	(+0.25%) 10-Yr Bond	4.695%	-0.044	  NYSE Volume	1,375,777,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,592,455,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Fed Opens Meeting, Rate Hike Expected Tue 2:49pm ET - Reuters The Federal Reserve began a two-day meeting on Tuesday that is widely expected to end with a quarter percentage point increase in official interest rates, ending a period of the lowest rates in two generations. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Tue 11:28pm ET It was a quiet but good day for the stock market...the indices opened near unchanged, fighting off some bad corporate news...Target (TGT ) announced that same-store sales would be below expectations...more Featured Article	 Injured While Drunk, Man Wants Cruise Line Suit Reinstated Tue 12:00 am ET - Law.com A drunken passenger who fell two decks from a staircase while aboard Royal Caribbean's Monarch of the Seas asked Florida's 3rd District Court of Appeal on Monday to reinstate his personal injury lawsuit against the cruise line. more Law.com... Money Matters SuzeImage	House Rules: How to Decide If It's Time to Own Rather Than Rent by Suze Orman Home ownership is the greatest AMERICAN DREAM, is it not? But listen up, my friends: If you do not have a clue what it really costs to own a home, how much of a house you can truly afford, and if you are just plain capable of owning a home, I am here to tell you that your dream will most likely turn into your greatest financial nightmare... more Money Matters topics... News from Reuters Consumers Perk Up But Spending Still Cool Tue 11:07pm ET - Reuters Americans were more confident about the economy and jobs this month than they have been in two years, but despite this optimism, major retailers said consumers curbed their spending because of cooler weather in parts of the country. · 	Stocks Get Confidence Boost; Fed on Tap · 	Japan Stocks Move Little Ahead of FOMC · 	Toyota Dominates U.S. Vehicle Quality Survey · 	Bank One Enters Fund Trading Settlement more business news... Investing Ideas Fed Hikes Interest in Market Motley Fool Tomorrow's the day... Greenspan will show his cards, and investors will react. Hopefully. Two Areas That Look Like They Have The Potential To Continue To Outperform The Market TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry gives you a some ideas to focus on in this market. Daytrading Opportunity TradingMarkets.com Kevin Haggerty sets up the action for Tuesday. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Funds on Yahoo! Finance Why Exchange-Traded Funds? ETFZone Exchange-Traded Funds, or ETFs, are index funds that trade just like stocks on major stock exchanges. Want to invest in the market quickly and cheaply? ETFs are the most practical vehicle...More  See also: Top-Performing ETFs My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Nancy and Sally each invest $1,000 in 1901, 50% in US bonds and 50% in the S&P 500. Sally rebalances annually to maintain a 50-50 target allocation into stocks and bonds. Nancy never rebalances. Ignoring taxes, at the end of 2001 how do their investments compare? 	Nancy has three times as much as Sally 	Nancy has twice as much as Sally 	Nancy has 50% more than Sally 	About the same 	Sally has 50% more than Nancy      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Copyright Policy Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
