20050618
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	18	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, June 18, 2005, 3:35AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories The Hottest Vacation Home Markets The Wall Street Journal Online The phenomenal real estate boom of the past five years is sweeping through the vacation-home market, where investors and regular vacationers alike are snapping up homes. What Happens If Real Estate Goes Bust? The Wall Street Journal Online Five years ago, the bull market for stocks came crashing to a halt after a glorious run. Is the roaring housing market headed for the same fate? Father's Day Gift Guide GOLFONLINE Skip the tie this year and make his day really special with one of these great golf gifts.  The Most Lucrative Movie Franchises of All-Time Forbes.com A look at which popular movie franchises have made the most money over the years.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,623.07	+44.42	(+0.42%) Nasdaq	2,090.11	+0.96	(+0.05%) S&P 500	1,216.96	+6.00	(+0.50%) 10-Yr Bond	4.078%	0.00 NYSE Volume	2,408,695,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,114,748,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	108.57 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8139 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Security Breach Could Expose 40M to Fraud Sat 2:08AM  ET - AP The names, banks and account numbers of up to 40 million credit card holders may have been accessed by an unauthorized user, MasterCard International Inc. said Friday. The credit card giant said the security breach involves a computer virus that captured customer data for the purpose of fraud and may have affected holders of all brands of credit cards. · 	Ex-Tyco Execs Convicted in Second Trial AP · 	Oil Prices Hit New High Above $58 Mark AP · 	Current Account Trade Deficit at New High AP · 	Guidant Recalls 50,000 Defibrillators AP · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories... Special Edition	  The Celebrity 10The 100 Highest-Paid Celebrities Forbes.com Forbes Magazine's annual ranking of the world's highest-paid and most powerful movie stars, musicians and athletes.  Featured Article Thinking of Investing in Real Estate? Get Real USATODAY.com If you own a home, you're probably feeling flush these days. At current housing prices, your doorknob may be worth more than your father's first car.  Investing Ideas Four Stocks You Need To Know About For Monday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Watch This Number TradingMarkets.com This level is significant in the Nasdaq Overconfidence In Your Investing Skills Can Lead To Fatal Mistakes Investor's Business Daily The story of the Titanic and the fatal result of its captain's overconfidence in the ship's capacity to withstand the hazards of the North Atlantic are legendary. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Patrick Warburton Proves Celebrities Can Hold Their Own Against Poker Pros by Winning 'POKER ROYALE: CELEBRITIES VS. PROS' Sat 1:00AM ET - PR Newswire Thieves Steal 40 Million Credit Card Accounts; Security Expert Available for Comment Fri 10:55PM ET - PR Newswire Confessions of an Identity Thief: Jim Stickley Robs Banks for a Living Fri 10:53PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...     Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.19%	5.33% 15-yr Fixed	4.81%	5.03% 5/1 ARM	4.61%	5.61% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Finance Quiz Q. Who will be the next Chairman of the Federal Reserve? 	Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve Board Member 	Glenn Hubbard, Dean of Columbia Business School 	Martin Feldstein, Harvard Economist 	Bill Clinton, Former US President  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
