20040718
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	18	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Sunday, July 18 2004 3:19am ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,139.78	-23.38	(-0.23%) Nasdaq	1,883.15	-29.56	(-1.55%) S&P 500	1,101.39	-5.30	(-0.48%) 10-Yr Bond	4.361%	-0.124	  NYSE Volume	1,446,726,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,792,171,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Execs Named in Invesco Suit Leave Company Sat 6:11pm ET - Reuters Two executives and a defendant named in a lawsuit against Invesco over improper trading are no longer working for it or an affiliated company, a spokesman for the affiliated company said on Saturday. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Sat 10:03am ET Weekly Recap - It was the first full week of June quarter earnings - and strategists were betting on a rally with EPS expectations high and stocks down for Q2 (June) - but instead the major indices fell lower for their third week in a row.  Buyers remained in the same trance that has...more Featured Article And Now the Hard Part By Chuck Salter Can JetBlue make the leap from popular (and profitable) niche airline to major player -- without losing its soul? Only if it can grow big but stay small at heart. more Popular Stories... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Judge OKs Halliburton Asbestos Settlement Sat 7:09pm ET - Reuters A federal bankruptcy judge approved a $4.2 billion settlement between two subsidiaries of energy services company Halliburton that could end the companies' long-running liability over asbestos claims, according to court documents filed on Friday. · 	2 Calif. Macy's Stores Stage 1-Day Strike · 	StocksView: Wall Street Long, Cool Summer · 	Assets: Italian Glass Shines with Promise · 	Indebted U.S. Ponders Maggots, Robbery more business news... Investing Ideas Don't Try to Fight the Market RealMoney by TheStreet.com Failing to respect its intelligence and power will not help you make money, says James 'Rev Shark' DePorre. AT&T: A Buy Just For The Dividend? BusinessWeek Online Cellular Tower Firms Seen As Mixed Bag By Telecom Investors Investor's Business Daily Some people hate them. Some want more of them. But are cell phone towers a good investment? more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Assuming a Seller's Mortgage MortgageProfessor For years, we heard little about assumptions because market rates were so low. Now that rates are above their lows, and may rise further, we can expect that assumptions will receive increasing attention...More  See also: Mortgage Rates | Find a Home My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following products is NOT sold by a company that is one of the top ten IPO gainers in the last year? 	Biopharmaceuticals 	Chicken Wings 	Fuel Cells 	Fine Jewelry      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Copyright Policy Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
