20040725
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	25	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Saturday, July 24 2004 11:36pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	9,962.22	-88.11	(-0.88%) Nasdaq	1,849.09	-39.97	(-2.12%) S&P 500	1,086.20	-10.64	(-0.97%) 10-Yr Bond	4.432%	-0.030	  NYSE Volume	1,331,407,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,702,540,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories CEO Bonuses May Rise, Payout May Lag Sat 8:23am ET - Reuters With U.S. corporate earnings surging, CEOs should again see big gains in annual cash bonuses. But even if they exceed performance targets, their 2004 compensation may be collared by a weak stock market. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Sat 10:03am ET Weekly Recap - The major indices deteriorated further amid pressing concerns about their weakening technical condition, the pace of earnings growth, the lack of industry leadership, rising oil prices, and the specter of terrorism.  To say the least, it wasn't a pretty week of trading...more Featured Article	 Don't hold your breath waiting for bubble burst Bankrate.com Dear Steve, I bought a brand-new home in Los Angeles County a year ago for $700,000. A neighbor with the same model, amenities, etc., just sold for $1.1 million. Would it behoove me to sell my home, profit from the appreciation and new valuation, and hold tight in a condo or apartment and wait for housing values to go back down in L.A., and then buy something again? What are your predictions for property-value growth or declines in the area over the next few years? more Bankrate.com... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Market Gains Followers as Momentum Wanes Sat 6:52pm ET - Reuters Wall Street's fast lanes have been so busy this year, it's been hard to get onto the slow ones. The long-term investor has all but vanished from the market as hedge funds and program traders have turned it into a churning speedway that's going nowhere fast. · 	Experience Matters in Financial M&A · 	Working the Class System Can Be Tricky · 	Kroll Official Arrested in Brazil · 	Finance: Easy Money, Early Money more business news... Investing Ideas Nokia Price Cuts Put Pressure On Rival Cell Phone Companies Investor's Business Daily Investors are concerned about the effects Nokia's price drops will have on the cell phone business. How To Make Money In A Bear Market -- Part 2 TradingMarkets.com Larry Connors shares more new research with you -- and some of it may surprise you! Stocks Keep Falling, But Key P-E Models Say They're Cheap Investor's Business Daily P-E models show the S&P 500 is undervalued. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Assuming a Seller's Mortgage MortgageProfessor For years, we heard little about assumptions because market rates were so low. Now that rates are above their lows, and may rise further, we can expect that assumptions will receive increasing attention...More  See also: Mortgage Rates | Find a Home My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following is considered the least corrupt country in the world? 	Iceland 	Singapore 	Switzerland 	Finland      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes...  World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
