20050911
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	11	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Sunday, September 11, 2005, 1:40AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories The World's Hottest Parties Forbes.com Some parties are just plain better than others. From Washington’s quadrennial Inaugural Ball to Vanity Fair’s annual Oscar party, these are the most lavish affairs with the highest celebrity factor. Baseball’s Missing Stat The Wall Street Journal Online Most ball clubs don't have any reliable method for determining how far a home run ball has traveled. Volunteers Swarm the Gulf Coast The Wall Street Journal Online Thousands of people have flocked to the Gulf region to help after Katrina, and charities are launching new ways to handle the surge of support.  How to Work for an Idiot Forbes.com Is your boss devious? Clueless? Paranoid? Here’s how to turn your boss's cluelessness to your advantage.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,678.56	+82.63	(+0.78%) Nasdaq	2,175.51	+9.48	(+0.44%) S&P 500	1,241.48	+9.81	(+0.80%) 10-Yr Bond	4.123%	-0.02 NYSE Volume	2,005,192,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,671,545,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	109.67 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8058 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Katrina May Cost U.S. As Much As Two Wars Sat 9:28PM  ET - AP One storm could end up costing almost as much as two wars. Although estimates of Hurricane Katrina's staggering toll on the treasury are highly imprecise, costs are certain to climb to $200 billion in the coming weeks. · 	Much of Gulf of Mexico Oil Still Blocked AP · 	Oil Aids Venezuelan Leader's Influence AP · 	Biloxi Port Eases Back Into Business AP · 	Hu Urges Canada to Boost China Investment AP · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article A Job-Hopper's Guide to 401(k) Rollovers USATODAY.com With the first of the baby boomers closing in on retirement age and many workers changing jobs every two to three years, an increasing number of investors are grappling with whether to leave money in a 401 plan, roll it over into an IRA or cash out.  Investing Ideas Has Sears really seen its lows? MarketWatch SAN DIEGO -- As is sometimes the case after doing Jim Cramer's "Mad Money" show on the cable channel CNBC, I like to do a quick recap. This time the main subject is Sears Holdings. Focus On These 7 Sectors Next Week TradingMarkets.com Thanks for your continued well wishes regarding Hurricane Katrina. I'm still in the process of digging myself, friends, and family out. Again, we are all fine and my personal property is generally okay. I made money on this stock yesterday -- and I'm trading it again today TradingMarkets.com Mike Kestler gives you the details... more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories During BET Telethon, Former President Clinton Expresses Concern With Government Response to Hurricane Katrina Sat 8:09PM ET - PR Newswire Alibaba eyes growth, no acquisitions yet Sat 7:23PM ET - Reuters PHOTO ADVISORY -- Ford Motor Company Sat 5:28PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...     Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.26%	5.42% 15-yr Fixed	4.82%	5.09% 5/1 ARM	4.78%	5.88% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators A Concert for the Gulf Coast  Happy Birthday, Yahoo!  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Finance Quiz Q. What percentage of workers report they have gained weight since starting their current job? 	34% 	47% 	61% 	82%  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
