20050426
 Wayback Machine	  MAR	APR	MAY Previous capture	26	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Tuesday, April 26, 2005, 4:10AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 20 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,242.47	+84.76	(+0.83%) Nasdaq	1,950.78	0.00	(0.00%) S&P 500	1,162.10	0.00	(0.00%) 10-Yr Bond	4.251%	0.00 NYSE Volume	1,808,486,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,501,633,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Adelphia to Pay $700M to Resolve Probe Tue 3:22AM  ET - Associated Press Adelphia Communications Corp. has agreed to pay $715 million to settle a federal investigation into the accounting fraud and looting fiasco that led to the collapse of the fifth-largest cable television company in the country. · 	SBC Earnings Down, but Surpass Estimates Associated Press · 	Crude Prices Drop After Bush Meets Prince Associated Press · 	Langone Outlines His Plans to Buy NYSE Associated Press · 	Andersen Prepares to Appeal Conviction Associated Press · 	Market Overview:  Mon 4:20 PM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories... Your Money  Most Expensive State to Insure a HomeBankruptcy Rules Tougher Under New Law For those with serious debt, the new law could be bad news. Here are how the most important changes could affect you and your money.  Featured Article Huffington Invites Friends to Join Blog Associated Press Political commentator Arianna Huffington will launch a news and opinion Web site next month including blogs written by more than 200 celebrities and leaders such as retired journalist Walter Cronkite, writer David Mamet and billionaire Barry Diller, CEO of IAC InterActive Corp.  Money Matters Suze OrmanHow to Take Control of Your Credit Cards by Suze Orman When it comes to credit cards, way too many of you are overdoing it. For all of you struggling with your credit cards, here’s how to be a credit card shark... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Three Stocks You Need To Know About For Tuesday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Has GM stock fallen enough to be attractive? MarketWatch ANNANDALE, Va. -- If the time to buy is when the blood is running in the streets, as contrarians assert, then they ought to be buying General Motors stock. Leading Stocks Show Big Growth In EPS, Sales In Recent Quarters Investor's Business Daily With the market staging a follow-through day last week and a few stocks inching toward breakouts, now's the perfect time to review the building blocks of investing. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Market Pulse: BP Q1 earns surge 29%; sees refining margins strength Tue 2:33AM ET - MarketWatch Infosecurity Europe 2005: VASCO to Introduce Strengthened Digipass Products Offerings to UK Corporate Network Access Market Tue 2:30AM ET - PR Newswire Law Offices Of Charles J. Piven, P.A. Announces Class Action Lawsuit Against BearingPoint, Inc. -- BE Tue 12:42AM ET - PrimeZone Media Network more Popular Stories...     Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance What Type of Borrower Are You? When it comes to borrowing, one loan doesn’t fit all. Choose your profile (from “clock racer” to “credit delinquent”) and get customized advice.  See also: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Rates  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. As of December 2003, what percentage of Fortune 500 companies were included in the holdings of socially responsible mutual funds? 	12% 	43% 	61% 	+90%   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
