20050317
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	MAR	APR Previous capture	17	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Thursday, March 17, 2005, 4:01AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 29 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,633.07	-112.03	(-1.04%) Nasdaq	2,015.75	-19.23	(-0.94%) S&P 500	1,188.07	0.00	(0.00%) 10-Yr Bond	4.518%	0.00 NYSE Volume	1,652,672,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,002,121,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Firms Reportedly Buy Toys R Us for $5.7B Thu 2:51AM  ET - Associated Press A consortium of two private-equity firms and a real estate developer has reportedly agreed to pay $5.7 billion to buy all of New Jersey-based Toys R Us Inc., the nation's second-biggest toy retailer. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Wed 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	GM Slashes Q1 Earnings Projections - Associated Press · 	Source: Qwest to Raise MCI Offer to $8.5B - Associated Press · 	FARM SCENE: Ill. Pumps Out More Ethanol - Associated Press · 	Viacom May Split Into Two Companies - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Special Edition	  Best-Selling 2005 Car ModelsBest-Selling 2005 Car Models Bankrate.com The 2005 model year has been excellent for new entries into the automobile market. Here's a look at the hottest of the hot in American automotives. more Special Editions... Tech Insider Visit each Thursday for "Tech Insider" New!  Fantasy Football Vs. Fantasy BaseballFantasy Football Vs. Fantasy Baseball Forbes.com Deion Sanders, the last athlete to play pro football and baseball at the same time, was once quoted as saying, "Baseball is my girlfriend, football is my wife." The sentiment is shared by the millions who play fantasy sports.  Money Matters Because Social Security Won't Cut It by Suze Orman I want to remind you that, Social Security is still intended only to provide a safety net to keep people from sliding into poverty in their later years. It is not, and was never meant to be, the central part of a retirement package... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Three Stocks You Need To Know About For Thursday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Trade The Overreactions This Week TradingMarkets.com Kevin Haggerty gives you the trading plan for Wednesday. Outsmarting Market Trends Morningstar.com Patient investors can profit when the market is short-sighted. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories KKR Group to Buy Toys R us -- WSJ Thu 3:01AM ET - Reuters TeleCity and Managed Storage International Extend Partnership Across Europe Thu 2:30AM ET - PR Newswire Oil Prices Scale to New Records Thu 2:03AM ET - Reuters more Popular Stories...     Tax Resources on Yahoo! Finance Tsunami How to Save More on Taxes Here's the scoop on the most overlooked tax credits and deductions... Also: ·	Doing Your Taxes Online ·	File Smarter and Save Money ·	Common Tax Errors to Avoid  See also: Tax Center | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. What percentage of U.S. households have a minimum net worth of $1mm? 	3% 	7% 	10% 	13%   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
