20040723
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	23	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Friday, July 23 2004 4:20am ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 10 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,050.33	+4.20	(+0.04%) Nasdaq	1,889.06	+14.69	(+0.78%) S&P 500	1,096.84	+2.96	(+0.27%) 10-Yr Bond	4.462%	-0.025	  NYSE Volume	1,674,307,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,982,399,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories DaimlerChrysler Leads Euro Stocks Upward Fri 4:00am ET - Reuters European shares got off to a strong start Friday, with DaimlerChrysler boosting auto makers after it reached a deal on cost savings, while Astrazeneca rose as it filed a suit against a generic drug maker. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 1:33am ET It was a tale of two markets today with sellers prevailing in the morning session and buyers prevailing in the afternoon... The weak start was presaged by the futures market and was an offshoot of yesterday's surprisingly sharp, and broad-based, decline...more Featured Article	 Amazon Falls Short Of Expectations Investor's Business Daily Amazon.com joined fellow dot-commers eBay and Yahoo in failing to impress investors with second-quarter results... more Investor's Business Daily... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Microsoft Profit Up, Shares Fall Fri 4:00am ET - Reuters Microsoft Corp. said on Thursday its quarterly earnings rose 81 percent, but forecast weaker-than-expected profit in the current business year as long-term corporate contracts expire and investment income slows, sending its shares down about 2 percent. · 	Asian Stocks Slip on Weak U.S. Forecasts · 	Weak Dollar Helps Coke Post Bigger Profit · 	China Pushes New Reforms, Looks to Market · 	AT&T Retreats from Residential Market more business news... Investing Ideas Survive The Market's Nastiness With A Single Sell Rule Investor's Business Daily Selling a stock immediately if it falls 7% to 8% from your buy point will keep you safe. Schlumberger Has Fans Gushing TheStreet.com Analysts like the oil services giant because of persistently high energy prices. Sinking Feeling Intensifies at Fannie RealMoney by TheStreet.com Peter Eavis shows how poorly the big mortgage company has handled interest rate risk. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Insurance on Yahoo! Finance The Facts of Life Smartmoney.com Dealing with agressive agents, wading through dense jargon, all while confronting your own mortality — buying life insurance is the Perfect Storm of unpleasant financial-planning chores. But don't fret. More...  See also: Life Insurance Calculators My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following is considered the least corrupt country in the world? 	Iceland 	Singapore 	Switzerland 	Finland      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes...  World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Copyright Policy Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
