20040715
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	15	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Thursday, July 15 2004 4:46am ET - U.S. Markets open in 4 hours and 44 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,208.80	-38.79	(-0.38%) Nasdaq	1,914.88	-16.78	(-0.87%) S&P 500	1,111.47	-3.67	(-0.33%) 10-Yr Bond	4.484%	+0.005	  NYSE Volume	1,458,671,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,116,805,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Harrah's to Buy Caesars for $5.2 Billion Thu 3:21am ET - Reuters Harrah's Entertainment Inc. has agreed to buy rival Caesars Entertainment Inc. for about $5.2 billion, creating the world's largest casino operator, sources close to the deal said Wednesday. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Thu 4:43am ET It was an erratic day of trading for the major indices - first down, then up, and finally down again - as Intel's (INTC 23.38 -2.76) lackluster Q2 (June) report and outlook hung over the market the entire time...more Featured Article	 Aid In The Shade Investor's Business Daily Education: One of the items on the silly misery index Sen. John Kerry released in April was the rising price of college tuition. He had a lot of gall to blame President Bush for something his party is partly responsible for... more Investor's Business Daily... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Honda to Launch Entry-Level Car in U.S. Thu 3:24am ET - Reuters Honda Motor Co. plans to launch an entry-level car cheaper than its popular Civic sedan in its main U.S. market in 2006, joining rival Toyota Motor Corp. in targeting the younger generation. · 	Sony Says MGM Deal Facing Complications · 	Sony Ericsson Profits in Second Quarter · 	Apple Computer's Profit Triples · 	Asian Tech Stocks Off; Oil at 6-Week Peak more business news... Investing Ideas Is tech a 'ticking time bomb?' CBS MarketWatch Quick hits: How Intel's Bad News Could Create An Opportunity TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry explains the strategy... Consider This Before Getting Short TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry sets up the action and gives you a stock idea. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Funds on Yahoo! Finance Why Exchange-Traded Funds? ETFZone Exchange-Traded Funds, or ETFs, are index funds that trade just like stocks on major stock exchanges. Want to invest in the market quickly and cheaply? ETFs are the most practical vehicle...More  See also: Top-Performing ETFs My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. During 2003, how did the average stock analyst's recommendations perform compared to his or her benchmark? 	+7.4% 	+2.2% 	No Difference 	-3.1% 	-9.3%      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Copyright Policy Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
