20041106
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	6	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, November 6, 2004, 4:57AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories The Key to a Lasting Marriage: Combat The Wall Street Journal Online One national couples-counseling program suggests spouses schedule a regular weekly date to argue. Others now offer instruction in fighting. The Most Expensive Suits Forbes.com What makes a suit cost upwards of $5,000 and sometimes considerably more? It's a combination of material, labor, skill and not a little egotism. 2004 Best New Travel Gadgets Travel + Leisure Each year, the marketplace is flooded by technology with twice the features in a smaller package. Here are 15 of our favorites this season.  Great American Winter Roads Forbes.com A guide to ten great roads on which to drive this winter--and some of the hottest cars on the road to take you there.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,387.54	+72.78	(+0.71%) Nasdaq	2,038.94	+15.31	(+0.76%) S&P 500	1,166.17	+4.50	(+0.39%) 10-Yr Bond	4.186%	+0.118 NYSE Volume	1,724,991,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,916,693,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories United's Unions Face New Pension, Pay Cuts Fri 8:54PM  ET - Associated Press United Airlines' plan to impose an additional $725 million in labor cuts and eliminate traditional pension plans was assailed as "disastrous" Friday by its flight attendants union, which pledged to fight the company "over every dime." Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Wendy's Fires Its 'Unoffical Spokesperson' - Associated Press · 	Dow Up 73, Finishing Off a Banner Week - Associated Press · 	Sears' Stock Surges After Firm Buys Stake - Associated Press · 	SBC to Cut 10,000 Jobs by End of 2005 - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Young, single and in need of an estate plan Bankrate.com Remember that hilarious episode of "Friends" where Ross convinces Rachel, Phoebe and the others to sit down and write their wills and designate durable power of attorney to each other in the event something should happen to them? Of course you don't; it never happened. Come on, who would believe that?  Money Matters Top Year-End Tax Moves by Suze Orman As we head into Fruit Cake Season I am bracing for that other great December tradition, the onslaught of articles on year-end tax moves. I don't like fruit cake, and I am so done with all the standard advice in those tax articles... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Seven Habits of Ineffective Traders RealMoney by TheStreet.com It's hard enough to succeed in the market without these hangups, Ken Wolff says. The Tale of Teva Motley Fool Generic drug companies like Teva may offer a smart way to own health care. Highlights of rising and falling U.S. stocks CBS MarketWatch The latest on stocks that made major moves in U.S. equity markets. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Weekly Wrap: Market Booms Sat 2:03AM ET - ETFZone.com U.S. Air Force Successfully Launches Upgraded GPS Satellite Built by Lockheed Martin Sat 1:53AM ET - PR Newswire United's Labor Deals May Be in Jeopardy Fri 8:42PM ET - Reuters more Popular Stories...   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Common Questions About Mortgage Brokers  Bankrate.com What do mortgage brokers do? How do mortgage brokers make money? Won't I save money by going directly to the lender? See also: Mortgage Help | Today's Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.What percentage of privately held companies are majority owned by women? 	12% 	24% 	48% 	63%    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
