20040416
 Wayback Machine	  JAN	APR	MAY Previous capture	16	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Friday, April 16 2004 12:49pm ET - U.S. Markets close in 3 hours and 11 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,456.16	+58.70	(+0.56%) Nasdaq	2,005.25	+3.08	(+0.15%) S&P 500	1,135.95	+7.11	(+0.63%) 10-Yr Bond	4.346%	-0.056	  NYSE Volume	788,449,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,063,008,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories U.S. stocks trade flat-to-higher on mixed data Fri 12:37pm ET - CBS MarketWatch U.S. stocks were trading flat-to-higher Friday as sectors sensitive to higher interest rates rebounded after a mixed batch of economic data. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 12:48pm ET The Dow and S&P 500 edge a bit higher as the Nasdaq continues to hover around the unchanged mark... A rally in the biotech group has aided in the Composite's improvement, although it remains to be seen if it can reverse all of its earlier weakness...more Featured Article	 Weird Financial News Motley Fool Lest you be focusing just on the bigger stories in the financial press, such as Apple Computer's iPod profits and PepsiCo's boffo first quarter , here's a brief recap of some recent and weird financial news... more Motley Fool... Money Matters The Sane Retirement Plan by Suze Orman There’s no need to panic and there’s no need to become a slave to financial calculators that tell you there’s no chance in hell you can afford to retire. I can promise you a retirement free of money woes, if you promise to listen to me... News from Reuters Economic Rebound on Track Despite Reports Fri 12:38pm ET - Reuters U.S. industrial production unexpectedly dropped in March while consumer sentiment slipped this month, but economists downplayed the two disappointing reports and said the economy's solid expansion remains on track. · 	Greenspan's German Counterpart Quits · 	Oil Firm on Gas Strength, Security Fears · 	EADS Wins Big 'Eye in Sky' NATO Contract · 	AMR Ordered to Pay Pilot Union more business news... Investing Ideas Beauty-Aid Supplier Is Sitting Pretty In China Investor's Business Daily Nu Skin plans to at least double the size of its business in China this year. Prana Biotech, Taser, Vcampus, and more CBS MarketWatch Stocks making significant moves in Friday's U.S. equity trading. Bigger jets key to Brazilian jetmaker Embraer's rise CBS MarketWatch Embraer executives couldn't have asked for a better endorsement for their innovative new jet. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Tax Tips on Yahoo! Finance How to Avoid An Audit More Tips: • Prepare & file online to reduce errors • See if you can reduce your "marriage penalty" • Give up to $11,000 a year, tax-free My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. What kind of return would you expect from a mutual fund that invested in companies for both their financial potential and their environmentally responsible practices? 	Better than the S&P 500 	Better than the average actively managed equity fund 	About the same as the average actively managed equity fund 	Slightly worse than the average actively managed equity fund 	Much worse than the average actively managed equity fund      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
