20040811
 Wayback Machine	  JUL	AUG	SEP Previous capture	11	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Wednesday, August 11 2004 4:55am ET - U.S. Markets open in 4 hours and 35 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	9,944.67	+130.01	(+1.32%) Nasdaq	1,808.70	+34.06	(+1.92%) S&P 500	1,079.04	+13.82	(+1.30%) 10-Yr Bond	4.287%	+0.043	  NYSE Volume	1,242,921,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,486,039,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Dollar Pauses After Fed-Inspired Rally Wed 4:14am ET - Reuters The dollar paused for breath on Wednesday after staging a broad-based rally in New York trade after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates and reaffirmed its bullish view of the U.S. economy. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Wed 4:53am ET The Fed raised the fed funds rate target 1/4% to 1 1/2%...the move, announced at 2:15 ET, was fully expected and had little impact on the day's action...stock indices opened higher, trended higher through early afternoon, and improved even more after the Fed announcement, closing at their highs of...more Featured Article	 IT management ripe for deals TheDeal.com Big technology companies could spend up to $4 billion over the next 18 months in a feeding frenzy to buy up makers of so-called applications management products... more TheDeal.com... Money Matters Is Your Soul Mate Your Money Match? by Suze Orman It really is true: how we approach our financial responsibilities is one of the most important litmus tests for a healthy relationship. Whether you are currently looking for Mr. or Ms. Right, or have been married for 20 years, it's imperative to have true financial intimacy between the two of you... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters European Tech Stocks Slip on Demand Fears Wed 4:44am ET - Reuters European technology shares led the region's stock markets lower on Wednesday after Cisco Systems Inc. said customers were becoming cautious, sparking fears that demand for chips and telecom equipment is falling. · 	Oil Just Under $45, Nervous Over Supply · 	World Oil Demand Stronger Than Thought · 	Stocks Jump as Fed Comments Reassure · 	Nikkei Ends Higher on Bank News, Fed View more business news... Investing Ideas One Market, Two Philosophies ETFZone.com A perennial question for traders as well as longer-term ETF investors is whether to invest in ETFs that have been doing well or to place bets with ETFs that have been faltering. This Stock Could Be Going Down TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry has a possible short setup for you! Focus List Stocks To Watch TradingMarkets.com Keving Haggerty gives you some names for Tuesday. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Insurance on Yahoo! Finance The Facts of Life Smartmoney.com Dealing with agressive agents, wading through dense jargon, all while confronting your own mortality — buying life insurance is the Perfect Storm of unpleasant financial-planning chores. But don't fret. More...  See also: Life Insurance Calculators My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following remodeling projects is most likely to provide the best return when a homeowner decides to sell? 	Additional Bathroom 	Family Room Addition 	Deck Addition 	Kitchen Remodeling      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes...  World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Copyright Policy Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
