20021125
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	FEB Previous capture	25	Next capture 2001	2002	2003 8,927 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Sunday, November 24 2002 10:40pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s)   Symbol Lookup   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	8,804.84	-40.31	(-0.46%) Nasdaq	1,468.74	+1.19	(+0.08%) S&P 500	930.55	-3.21	(-0.34%) 10-Yr Bond	4.175%	+0.032	  NYSE Volume	1,607,837,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,963,650,000 Quote data provided by Reuters  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... IndustriesNew Biotech, Energy, Media, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing 101... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... Bonds Rates, Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Analyzer... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College...New Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Japan Shares Hit Two-Week High Sun 10:26pm ET - Reuters Japanese shares rose to a two-week high on Monday, lifted by a weakening yen, and most other Asian stock markets posted gains on the back of a brighter outlook in the United States, the world's largest economy. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 4:41pm ET The market opened down a bit on some light profit-taking...then it bounced around all day, and ended down a bit on late-profit taking...the Nasdaq impressively ended with a slight gain after being the weakest at the open...a somewhat boring trading day, but also essentially positive...more Finance Spotlight ·	Find a Mortgage Get up to 4 offers.	·	Research Reports Wall Street at great prices. ·	Credit Reports Get yours online for $9.95	·	Real-Time Package Live streaming quotes for $9.95/mo  Business News Wall St Week Ahead-Slow Thanksgiving Week Sun 10:26pm ET - Reuters Investors will keep one eye on the turkey and another on a mound of economic data during a sluggish Thanksgiving week that will determine whether the blue-chip Dow churns out its eighth winning week.  U.S. Ports Deal Includes Modernization of Docks Sun 10:26pm ET - Reuters U.S. West Coast longshoremen and port employers on Sunday outlined a six-year contract deal that paves the way for a long-awaited modernization of the waterfront and ends a bitter labor dispute that had threatened to derail the U.S. economy.  Fed's McTeer Happy with Interest Rates Sun 10:26pm ET - Reuters U.S. interest rates are at the right level, given the tentative pace of the economic recovery so far, Dallas Federal Reserve President Robert McTeer said on Sunday.  Goldman Sachs Denies UK 'Spinning' Sun 3:50pm ET - Reuters Goldman Sachs on Sunday strongly denied a British newspaper report that challenged the integrity of its stock research and alleged it gave privileged access to favored clients in a British share float.  Coming Months May Be Pivotal for Greenspan's Future Sun 10:26pm ET - Reuters The coming months could prove pivotal for the future of Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, sources close to the Bush administration say.  more business news...     My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following ratios is the most direct rule of thumb, for renters, to determine whether or not you should itemize deductions on your federal tax return? 	Your personal exemptions to your AGI 	Your state income tax rate to the standard deduction 	Your AGI this year to your AGI last year     (You'll also see how other users have answered.)  Get 25 FREE Trades when you open a TD Waterhouse Brokerage account today!   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · Denmark  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Norway  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Sweden  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2002 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy - Terms of Service To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy Quote technology by TIBCO Software, Inc. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
