20041107
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	7	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Sunday, November 7, 2004, 4:19AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories The Key to a Lasting Marriage: Combat The Wall Street Journal Online One national couples-counseling program suggests spouses schedule a regular weekly date to argue. Others now offer instruction in fighting. The Most Expensive Suits Forbes.com What makes a suit cost upwards of $5,000 and sometimes considerably more? It's a combination of material, labor, skill and not a little egotism. 2004 Best New Travel Gadgets Travel + Leisure Each year, the marketplace is flooded by technology with twice the features in a smaller package. Here are 15 of our favorites this season.  Great American Winter Roads Forbes.com A guide to ten great roads on which to drive this winter--and some of the hottest cars on the road to take you there.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,387.54	+72.78	(+0.71%) Nasdaq	2,038.94	+15.31	(+0.76%) S&P 500	1,166.17	+4.50	(+0.39%) 10-Yr Bond	4.186%	+0.118 NYSE Volume	1,724,991,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,916,693,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Bush Stands by Rejection of Kyoto Treaty Sat 9:11PM  ET - Associated Press President Bush is holding fast to his rejection of mandatory curbs on greenhouse gases that are blamed for global warming, despite a fresh report from 300 scientists in the United States and seven other nations that shows Arctic temperatures are rising. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Economist Sohn to Lead Korean-U.S. Bank - Associated Press · 	Dollar Falls to All-Time Low Against Euro - Associated Press · 	Georgia Arms Dealer Awarded $3.6 Million - Associated Press · 	United's Unions Face New Pension, Pay Cuts - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Oil Refineries Striking Pay Dirt In The Ways To Use Technology Investor's Business Daily Faced with thinning margins and aging plants, refiners are looking to digital technologies to boost efficiency...  Money Matters Top Year-End Tax Moves by Suze Orman As we head into Fruit Cake Season I am bracing for that other great December tradition, the onslaught of articles on year-end tax moves. I don't like fruit cake, and I am so done with all the standard advice in those tax articles... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Seven Habits of Ineffective Traders RealMoney by TheStreet.com It's hard enough to succeed in the market without these hangups, Ken Wolff says. Highlights of rising and falling U.S. stocks CBS MarketWatch The latest on stocks that made major moves in U.S. equity markets. The Tale of Teva Motley Fool Generic drug companies like Teva may offer a smart way to own health care. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Comcast Adds Altitude Sports & Entertainment to Lineup Sun 1:09AM ET - PR Newswire Report: BT Poised to Buy Infonet Sat 10:54PM ET - Reuters Actelion Stops Acute Heart Failure Study Sat 8:42PM ET - PrimeZone Media Network more Popular Stories...    Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance 6 Strategies for Saving Money on Your Mortgage  Fool.com The key to saving money on your mortgage is to get the best possible mortgage for yourself. Sounds so obvious it's silly, right? But the point here is that you don't need to do it the way everyone else does.  See also: Today's Rates | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.What percentage of privately held companies are majority owned by women? 	12% 	24% 	48% 	63%    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
