20040701
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUL	AUG Previous capture	1	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Wednesday, June 30 2004 10:00pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,435.48	+22.05	(+0.21%) Nasdaq	2,047.79	+12.86	(+0.63%) S&P 500	1,140.84	+4.64	(+0.41%) 10-Yr Bond	4.617%	-0.078	  NYSE Volume	1,471,062,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,770,712,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Fed Lifts Rates, Pledges Gradual Course Wed 8:31pm ET - Reuters The Federal Reserve raised U.S. interest rates for the first time in four years on Wednesday, boosting them a quarter percentage point in what likely is the first of several rises to keep inflation at bay. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Wed 9:58pm ET Today's action was all about the Fed meeting and the 25 bp hike...The market got what it was looking for and no more...With the Fed continuing to tackle inflation at a "measured" pace, the market didn't have too much to say...more Featured Article	 Stupid Credit Tricks Motley Fool According to Bank One , Citibank, PayPal, Fleet, and eBay , my accounts have been compromised; for this egregious wrong to be righted, I need to check in with each immediately to provide my Social Security number and other identifying information... more Motley Fool... Money Matters House Rules: How to Decide If It's Time to Own Rather Than Rent by Suze Orman Home ownership is the greatest AMERICAN DREAM, is it not? But listen up, my friends: If you do not have a clue what it really costs to own a home, how much of a house you can truly afford, and if you are just plain capable of owning a home, I am here to tell you that your dream will most likely turn into your greatest financial nightmare. more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Midwest Business Growth Hits the Brakes Wed 9:30pm ET - Reuters Business in the U.S. Midwest expanded at a slower pace in June, hit by an auto sales slowdown, a report showed on Wednesday, lending support to views the Federal Reserve need raise interest rates only gradually to curtail inflation. · 	Nikkei Pushed Up by Tankan; Banks Slide · 	Yen Up on Stronger-Than-Expected 'Tankan' · 	Stocks End Up After Fed Raises Rates · 	Oracle Considering Other Takeovers -CEO more business news... Investing Ideas Can The Start Of July Bring Some Fireworks? Optionetics.com Leadership Needs Semis' And Brokers' Help TradingMarkets.com Kevin Haggerty runs down the action and gives you some stock ideas. Daytrading Opportunity TradingMarkets.com Kevin Haggerty sets up the action for Tuesday. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Insurance on Yahoo! Finance The Lowdown on Life Insurance Medical Exams insure.com You will probably be asked to have a medical examination when you apply for life insurance, depending on your age and the amount of insurance you're buying. This can include a basic physical exam, urine specimen, blood work, EKG, and X-ray... My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Nancy and Sally each invest $1,000 in 1901, 50% in US bonds and 50% in the S&P 500. Sally rebalances annually to maintain a 50-50 target allocation into stocks and bonds. Nancy never rebalances. Ignoring taxes, at the end of 2001 how do their investments compare? 	Nancy has three times as much as Sally 	Nancy has twice as much as Sally 	Nancy has 50% more than Sally 	About the same 	Sally has 50% more than Nancy      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy - Terms of Service To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
