20050903
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	3	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, September 3, 2005, 2:33AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories The Safest and Least Safe Places in the U.S Forbes.com In the wake of Katrina's devastation, a closer look at places in the U.S. that are more safe -- and less safe -- from natural disasters. How to Get a Good Night's Sleep Inc.com The rules are simple: no booze, no caffeine, and most importantly, don't bring work to bed! Time to Buy an HDTV? BusinessWeek Online The competition among high-definition technologies has prices on flat-panel sets tumbling.  The World's Fastest Cars Forbes.com Fantasy blurs with reality amid sleek and sexy cars that go 202 mph or faster.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,447.37	-12.26	(-0.12%) Nasdaq	2,141.07	-6.83	(-0.32%) S&P 500	1,218.02	-3.57	(-0.29%) 10-Yr Bond	4.029%	+0.01 NYSE Volume	1,641,759,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,159,940,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	109.83 ¥ USD to Euro	0.7980 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Jobless Rate in Gulf Coast Likely to Surge Fri 11:01PM  ET - AP The jobless rate in the hurricane-ravaged Gulf Coast is expected to spike to 25 percent or higher, and when the long rebuilding process begins it's likely the same people the economy had left behind before the storm -- the unemployed and working poor -- will have the most trouble getting back on their feet. · 	Dow Closes Down 12 Amid Hurricane Woes AP · 	Longer-Term Petroleum Picture Improves AP · 	Donations Pour in for Katrina Relief AP · 	Banks Give Reprieve to Stricken Homeowners AP · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Hot for a Hybrid? Nine Things to Consider Bankrate.com Saving money on gas shouldn't be your only consideration when shopping for one of these gas-sippers.  Money Matters Insurance: What You Need and What You Don't by Suze Orman I'm not going to pretend the subject of insurance is sexy or exciting. But it sure is an important and, yes, potentially dangerous topic that deserves your full attention. more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas TradingMarkets' 7 Stocks You Need To Know About For Tuesday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list... Taking Smaller Profits Can Still Net Big Returns If Done Right Investor's Business Daily What do Ty Cobb, Rod Carew and Wade Boggs have in common? They're all members of the Baseball Hall of Fame. A Safer Way to Play Emerging Markets RealMoney by TheStreet.com Roger Nusbaum says the Austrian ETF provides entree to the Alpine growth potential. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Shoe Drive for Hurricane Katrina Victims - 'Million Pair March' Sat 12:36AM ET - PR Newswire Harrah's Employee Relief Hotline Launched Fri 10:55PM ET - PR Newswire CORRECTING and REPLACING Intel Pledges 1,500 PCs, Wireless Access Equipment, Technical Support for Hurricane Katrina Disaster Relief Efforts Fri 10:20PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...     Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.21%	5.38% 15-yr Fixed	4.78%	5.05% 5/1 ARM	4.73%	5.95% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Finance Quiz Q. Which country has the highest percentage of workers contributing to private pension plans (including 401k accounts)? 	United States 	Japan 	China 	France  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
