20040902
 Wayback Machine	  JUL	SEP	OCT Previous capture	2	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Thursday, September 2, 2004, 5:33AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 3 hours and 57 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,168.46	-5.46	(-0.05%) Nasdaq	1,850.41	+12.31	(+0.67%) S&P 500	1,105.91	+1.67	(+0.15%) 10-Yr Bond	4.123%	-0.009 NYSE Volume	1,134,887,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,431,190,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Ford, GM Set Production Cuts on Sales Drop Thu 3:14AM  ET - Associated Press Another disappointing sales month at General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. led the nation's two largest automakers to cut planned vehicle production in the fourth quarter, which could hurt profits. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Wed 3:35 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	European Interest Rates Likely Unchanged - Associated Press · 	Manufacturing Activity Rises; Rate Slows - Associated Press · 	Tokyo Stocks Fall; Dollar Up Against Yen - Associated Press · 	Halliburton: TSKJ Weighed Bribing Nigeria - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article The Nasdaq Isn't a Sell--It Just Looks That Way Morningstar.com There's been a lot of talk lately about the valuation of growth and technology stocks. In recent months, I have read numerous opinion pieces on this subject by journalists, academics, pundits, and money managers. All of these articles and papers came to a similar conclusion: Growth stocks, and technology stocks in particular, are dramatically overvalued...  Money Matters Trusts Aren't Just for Millionaires by Suze Orman I know this isn't going to win me any awards for being Suze Sunshine, but we need to talk about death. Yours. More to the point: I want to talk to you about what you need to do now so that when you die your family and friends have an easy time making sure your wishes are carried out... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Do This Until Traders Return TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry explains the best course of action now. Position Traders: This Is Your Better Probability TradingMarkets.com Kevin Haggerty says daytraders can play both ways, but for position traders... This Stock Is Trying To Move Trough A Pivot Point TradingMarkets.com Tim Truebenbach explains that, although there's not a lot going on, this stock is attempting a move... more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Metso Paper's Cost Reduction Program Advances Thu 5:02AM ET - PR Newswire ShopKo Reports August Retail Sales Thu 5:00AM ET - PR Newswire Syngenta Launches New Generation of Cotton Seed Treatment in the US Thu 5:00AM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...    Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance 6 Strategies for Saving Money on Your Mortgage  Fool.com The key to saving money on your mortgage is to get the best possible mortgage for yourself. Sounds so obvious it's silly, right? But the point here is that you don't need to do it the way everyone else does.  See also: Today's Rates | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.From 2002-2003, which of the following investments produced the best return before transaction costs? 	A Bottle of 1990 Cheval Blanc (Bordeaux) 	Robert Mondavi (MOND) stock 	S&P 500    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
