20050320
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	MAR	APR Previous capture	20	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, March 19, 2005, 10:30PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories The New B-School? B-Ball The Wall Street Journal Online Management experts say that basketball is the sport most attuned to the pace of business today. And increasingly, businesses are turning to basketball coaches to learn how to teach employees to lead. Sony's PlayStation Goes Portable The Wall Street Journal Online The PlayStation Portable could become Sony's first iconic portable, personal product of the digital era. The Best Business Books Fortune This is the ultimate reading list: 75 books that will teach you everything you really need to know about business.  The Best Limos Forbes.com The ten best vehicles for those who never drive themselves anywhere.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,629.67	+3.32	(+0.03%) Nasdaq	2,007.79	-8.63	(-0.43%) S&P 500	1,189.65	-0.56	(-0.05%) 10-Yr Bond	4.511%	+0.04 NYSE Volume	2,787,906,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,255,173,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories IMF Chief: High Oil Prices to Continue Sat 8:28PM  ET - Associated Press Oil prices that have hovered around record highs for weeks are likely to continue to be high for another two years because of rising demand and supply constraints, the head of the International Monetary Fund said Saturday. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Wal-Mart's Calif. Supercenters Delayed - Associated Press · 	EU Denounces U.S. Airbus Threat - Associated Press · 	Wal-Mart Escapes Criminal Charges in Case - Associated Press · 	Oil Prices Remain Above $56 a Barrel Level - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article How to Buy Anything at Auction Bankrate.com Do your homework before you start your bidding.  Money Matters What to Do When Social Security Won't Cut It by Suze Orman I want to remind you that, Social Security is still intended only to provide a safety net to keep people from sliding into poverty in their later years. It is not, and was never meant to be, the central part of a retirement package... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Highlights of rising and falling U.S. stocks MarketWatch Stocks to watch Take Advantage Of The Herd Mentality--Here's How TradingMarkets.com Former exchange specialist Steve Primo tells you how. Three Stocks You Need To Know About For Friday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories San Diego's Best Pick-Up Spots Revealed in City-Wide Search Sat 9:12PM ET - PR Newswire 7,929 Total Winners With No Jackpot Winner(s) in Tonight's WINFALL Drawing Sat 9:00PM ET - PR Newswire Actor Walter Koenig Presented ''Heroes in Education'' Award to Lancaster Volunteer Sat 7:30PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...     Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance What Mistakes Do Mortgage Shoppers Make?  Mortgage Professor Q: I am about to shop the mortgage market. Can you give me a handy list of the mistakes I need to avoid? See also: Mortgage Help | Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. What percentage of U.S. households have a minimum net worth of $1mm? 	3% 	7% 	10% 	13%   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
