20040623
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	23	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Wednesday, June 23 2004 4:49am ET - U.S. Markets open in 4 hours and 41 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,395.07	+23.60	(+0.23%) Nasdaq	1,994.15	+19.77	(+1.00%) S&P 500	1,134.41	+4.11	(+0.36%) 10-Yr Bond	4.704%	+0.014	  NYSE Volume	1,382,216,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,682,288,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories GM Announces China Expansion Plans Wed 1:07am ET - Reuters General Motors Corp., the world's top car maker, plans to spend $250 million with a local partner to expand a pivotal car design center in China, and move its Asia-Pacific headquarters to Shanghai by January. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Wed 1:33am ET Stocks opened lower, and the continued selling from yesterday took the S&P Index hit -5.93 by mid-morning...then, the market turned around, and the S&P Index rallied over 10 points and closed near its highs of the day...all of this developed on very little news......more Money Matters Get with the Program, Mutual Funds are Way Too 20th Century by Suze Orman Can I ask you something? You don't use a Betamax to watch movies at home, do you? And your car isn't outfitted with an 8-track tape player, right?... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Glaxo Says on Target for Earnings Growth Wed 2:25am ET - Reuters GlaxoSmithKline Plc., Europe's biggest drugmaker, is expected to return to earnings growth in the fourth quarter and to meet its 2004 earnings target, a senior company official said on Wednesday. · 	U.S. Tech Gains Drive Asian Stocks Higher · 	Evans: Reform Key to China Market Economy · 	Oil Steady Ahead of U.S. Data · 	Wal-Mart Discrimination Suit Is Certified more business news... Investing Ideas Price And Volume Should Both Soar At The Breakout Investor's Business Daily How a stock acts on the day of its breakout can speak volumes about its potential. Here's A Stock That Looks Poised To Resume Its Trend TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry gives you his read on the market, along with a stock idea. Profit Picture 'Fabulous' As Firms Keep Raising 2nd-Quarter Outlooks Investor's Business Daily With earnings season just around the corner, companies are raising guidance on second-quarter results at a record clip. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Funds on Yahoo! Finance Why Exchange-Traded Funds? ETFZone Exchange-Traded Funds, or ETFs, are index funds that trade just like stocks on major stock exchanges. Want to invest in the market quickly and cheaply? ETFs are the most practical vehicle...More  See also: Top-Performing ETFs My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Multiply your age by your household income. Divide by 10. What does the resulting number mean? 	The maximum you should keep in a tax-deferred plan 	The total wages on which your Social Security benefits will be based 	A rough rule of thumb for what you'll need for retirement 	What your net worth should be today      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
