20040726
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	26	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Monday, July 26 2004 4:17am ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 13 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	9,962.22	-88.11	(-0.88%) Nasdaq	1,849.09	-39.97	(-2.12%) S&P 500	1,086.20	-10.64	(-0.97%) 10-Yr Bond	4.432%	-0.030	  NYSE Volume	1,331,407,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,702,540,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Former Boeing CFO to Plead Guilty -Report Mon 2:42am ET - Reuters Former Boeing Co. Chief Financial Officer Michael Sears agreed to plead guilty to conspiring to deceive the U.S. government about negotiations for a contract to provide the Air Force with refueling jets, according to a report on Sunday by Bloomberg News. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Mon 4:13am ET Earnings reports once again proved to be a thorn in the market's side as investors dissatisfied with results took the indices significantly lower... The source of the market's malaise was a number of June quarter reports from major tech players, such as Microsoft (MSFT 28.10 -0.90), Amazon.com...more Featured Article	 More Schools Implement Tuition Freezes Associated Press Amid mounting college costs, more schools are allowing students to lock-in tuition costs until graduation. This fall, students attending any of the state schools in Illinois will be able to retain the price they pay as freshmen... more Associated Press... Money Matters SuzeImage	Before Lamaze and Irresistable Outfits - How To Baby-Proof Your Finances by Suze Orman Most of us know that few decisions in life carry more responsibility than the decision to become a parent. That's why I find it so odd how many parents-to-be completely drop the ball when it comes to understanding what they need to do to financially protect themselves and their new child... more Money Matters topics... News from Reuters Mylan to Buy King Pharma for $4 Bln - WSJ Mon 4:04am ET - Reuters Mylan Laboratories Inc., the biggest U.S. maker of generic drugs, has agreed to buy King Pharmaceuticals Inc. for $4 billion to expand its branded-drug business, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation. · 	Santander Offering Buy of Abbey-Source · 	RealNetworks Upgrades Software for IPod · 	Pearson Swings to First-Half Profit · 	FTSE Up Despite Abbey Bid Price Concerns more business news... Investing Ideas How To Make Money In A Bear Market -- Part 2 TradingMarkets.com Larry Connors shares more new research with you -- and some of it may surprise you! Stocks Keep Falling, But Key P-E Models Say They're Cheap Investor's Business Daily P-E models show the S&P 500 is undervalued. Nokia Price Cuts Put Pressure On Rival Cell Phone Companies Investor's Business Daily Investors are concerned about the effects Nokia's price drops will have on the cell phone business. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Banking on Yahoo! Finance Who Can Demand Your Digits? Bankrate.com While any business or agency can ask for your number, few can actually demand it -- motor vehicle departments, tax departments and welfare departments, for example...More  See also: Savings Rates | Find a Credit Card My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following is considered the least corrupt country in the world? 	Iceland 	Singapore 	Switzerland 	Finland      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes...  World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
