20060204
 Wayback Machine	  JAN	FEB	MAR Previous capture	4	Next capture 2005	2006	2007 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  Friday, February 3, 2006, 9:12PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. HomeInvestingNews & CommentaryRetirement & PlanningBanking & CreditLoansTaxesMy Portfolios  Get QuotesSymbol LookupFinance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories The Best- and Worst-Selling Cars Forbes.com From Acura to Volvo, a look at each automaker's highest-selling model--and its lowest--in the U.S. during the last year. Super Bowl QBs: Where Are They Now? Forbes.com Here's what eight Super Bowl QBs from the '80s and '90s have been up to since giving up the glory of the gridiron. The Top 10 Hybrid Myths BusinessWeek Online With more gas-electric hybrids on the road than ever, it's time to dispel some of the misinformation surrounding these alternative vehicles.  The Highest-Paid Supermodels Forbes.com These women have catwalked their way into the big time--and the big bucks--with television shows, fashion lines and even book deals.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,793.62	-58.36	(-0.54%) Nasdaq	2,262.58	-18.99	(-0.83%) S&P 500	1,264.03	-6.81	(-0.54%) 10-Yr Bond	4.533%	-0.03 NYSE Volume	2,358,320,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,278,588,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	118.93 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8319 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Columnists Money Matters With Suze Orman Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Life... Retirement & Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Unemployment Rate Drops to 4 1/2-Year Low  AP -- The nation's unemployment rate dropped to a 4 1/2-year low as businesses cranked up hiring in January, an encouraging sign that the economy started the year on the right foot. · 	Dow Ends Down 58, Nasdaq Ends Down 19 AP · 	Enron Trial Seen As Marathon, Not Sprint AP · 	Maytag Posts Wider Fourth-Quarter Loss AP · 	Sales at Wendy's Fall 3.7 Percent in 2005 AP · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories... How Not to Ruin Your Life Common SenseLiving Hand to Mouth -- and Barely Getting By by Ben Stein Individual Americans -- and the country as a whole -- are living beyond their means, with the savings rate in negative territory. But the day of reckoning can't be put off forever. View our other columnists here  Featured Article How About a 22-Hour Flight? AP Authorities have certified Boeing's longest-range jetliner to begin flying passengers worldwide. The Worldliner holds the record for the longest nonstop flight by a commercial jet, flying from Hong Kong to London, which took 22 hours and 43 minutes.  Investing Ideas Betting against U.S. dollar may be good buy USATODAY.com We all have things we worry about in the middle of the night. Taxes. Blood pressure. The creature in the basement. The Difference Between Market Tops And Bottoms TradingMarkets.com Significant tops USUALLY, though certainly not always, are marked by this. Grow, grow, grow your dough USATODAY.com Q: How can you find companies that have generated consistent earnings growth? more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Ousted CB&I Executives Respond to Firings; CEO Glenn, COO Jordan Guided Company to Current Prosperity Fri 8:10PM ET - PR Newswire Sovereign Comments on Pennsylvania Legislation Fri 7:00PM ET - PR Newswire New VMware Software Will Be Free Of Charge Fri 7:00PM ET - Investor's Business Daily more Popular Stories...   Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.81%	6% 15-yr Fixed	5.4%	5.71% 5/1 ARM	5.34%	6.56% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Finance Quiz Q. Disney was scheduled to report earnings on Monday, February 6. Did CEO Robert Iger make the right move in buying Pixar? 	Yes. Disney has lost its edge as an animation leader. 	Not necessarily. There's no guarantee Pixar can continue to deliver box-office hits.  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
