20041114
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	14	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, November 13, 2004, 10:48PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories American Super Cars Forbes.com These american super cars have the performance--and price--to compete with the best from Germany and Japan. Best New American Restaurants 2004 Travel + Leisure Hungry? Here are 40 places in 10 cities where you can find your next memorable meal. Reebok, Adidas, Nike Aim to Bring Back the $100-Plus Sneaker The Wall Street Journal Online Super-expensive athletic shoes practically disappeared a couple of years ago. But with the newest high-tech models, they may be back.  The Best First Class Forbes.com As airlines pour millions into their first-class sections, in-flight pampering is being taken to new heights.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,539.01	+69.17	(+0.66%) Nasdaq	2,085.34	+24.07	(+1.17%) S&P 500	1,184.17	+10.69	(+0.91%) 10-Yr Bond	4.2%	-0.054 NYSE Volume	1,532,046,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,018,805,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Election Over, Traders Look Ahead to '05 Sat 8:19PM  ET - Associated Press The resolution of the presidential race gave Wall Street a surprising boost, helping equities gain more than 8 percent over the last three weeks. Now, with the end of the year in sight, it's a good time to take stock of your portfolio's sector allocations. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Crude Futures Drop; Fuel Worries Erode - Associated Press · 	Office Depot to Eliminate 800 More Jobs - Associated Press · 	Biggest Swiss Cheese Looks to Protect Name - Associated Press · 	Novell Files Antitrust Suit Vs. Microsoft - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Nintendo Set to Launch New Game System Associated Press Nintendo Co. is set to launch Nintendo DS, the latest of its wallet-sized game systems designed to slip easily into your backpack and encourage procrastination wherever you may roam...  Investing Ideas The Sound of Gaining 100% in a Day Motley Fool Dynamic Materials, with the stock symbol BOOM, was up 100% in early Nasdaq trading. Stock Buybacks On Record Pace, A Bullish Indicator For Investors Investor's Business Daily It's good news when mutual funds snap up a public company's stock. But it's just as encouraging when a firm invests in itself. Even The Media Is Telling You To Buy After +7.8% In 13 Days TradingMarkets.com Kevin Haggerty gives you the trading plan for Friday. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Contestants on ''The Big Spin'' Show Win More Than $340,000 Sat 7:30PM ET - Business Wire S&P Hits 2004 High Sat 5:25PM ET - ETFZone.com Say Goodbye to Frustrating Investment Strategies -- Building an Effective Investment Plan is a Breeze with the ''Pragmatic Investor'' from Aptus Communications Sat 4:24PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance What Mistakes Do Mortgage Shoppers Make?  Mortgage Professor Q: I am about to shop the mortgage market. Can you give me a handy list of the mistakes I need to avoid? See also: Mortgage Help | Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.How much do you intend to spend on holiday shopping this year compared to last year? 	Much less 	Slightly less 	About the same 	Slightly more 	Much more    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
