20040628
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	28	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Sunday, June 27 2004 8:09pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,371.84	-71.97	(-0.69%) Nasdaq	2,025.47	+9.90	(+0.49%) S&P 500	1,134.43	-6.22	(-0.55%) 10-Yr Bond	4.645%	-0.001	  NYSE Volume	1,817,496,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,671,327,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Japanese Stocks Expected to Firm Sun 7:38pm ET - Reuters Japanese stocks are expected to firm on Monday as investors cling to hopes that the "tankan" sentiment survey by the Bank of Japan will show companies remain upbeat. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Sat 10:03am ET Weekly Recap - It was all about biding time this week as the market continued to look ahead to next week's key events, namely the FOMC meeting, the restoration of sovereignty to Iraq, and the June employment report.  The waiting period, however, wasn't marked with total disinterest as a number...more Special Edition	Provided by Forbes.com personals.jpg	Best City For Singles Our annual listing of America's Best Cities For Singles ranks the 40 largest metropolitan areas in seven different categories: nightlife, culture, job growth, number of other singles, cost of living alone, coolness and public opinion. more special edition... Money Matters Get with the Program, Mutual Funds are Way Too 20th Century by Suze Orman Can I ask you something? You don't use a Betamax to watch movies at home, do you? And your car isn't outfitted with an 8-track tape player, right?... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters EU Suspends Microsoft Sanctions Sun 7:41pm ET - Reuters The European Commission has temporarily suspended an order requiring Microsoft to sell a version of Windows without media player software, just before it would have taken effect, a source familiar with the situation said Sunday. · 	Fed Looks at Measured Rate-Rise Campaign · 	After Fed Acts, Stocks May Rise · 	Elections Seen Cooling Merger Activity · 	Ken Lay Says He's Not Guilty of Crime in Enron Fall more business news... Investing Ideas Nice Head and Shoulders on the S&P RealMoney by TheStreet.com Bulls should look at this chart and remember what happened in 1998. Growth May Be Eking Out Edge Over Value Associated Press Professional investors are always searching for clues about which segment of the market is poised to take off next, and right now, many are betting on growth stocks. Bears Argue Their Case For Caution Investor's Business Daily For the 1,100 financial advisers gathered in Chicago for the 16th annual Morningstar Investment Conference on Thursday and Friday, gloomy forecasts for stocks and bonds seemed to drown out the bullish crowd. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Assuming a Seller's Mortgage MortgageProfessor For years, we heard little about assumptions because market rates were so low. Now that rates are above their lows, and may rise further, we can expect that assumptions will receive increasing attention...More  See also: Mortgage Rates | Find a Home My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Multiply your age by your household income. Divide by 10. What does the resulting number mean? 	The maximum you should keep in a tax-deferred plan 	The total wages on which your Social Security benefits will be based 	A rough rule of thumb for what you'll need for retirement 	What your net worth should be today      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
