20040629
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	29	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Monday, June 28 2004 10:41pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,357.09	-14.75	(-0.14%) Nasdaq	2,019.82	-5.65	(-0.28%) S&P 500	1,133.35	-1.08	(-0.10%) 10-Yr Bond	4.739%	+0.094	  NYSE Volume	1,350,069,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,616,121,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Last United Bid for Loan Backing Rejected Mon 6:19pm ET - Reuters The U.S. government on Monday rejected United Airlines' third and final bid for a loan guarantee, forcing the carrier to move forward with its efforts to secure financing on its own to exit bankruptcy. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Mon 10:38pm ET Today's headline was the passing of sovereignty to the new Iraqi government 2 days earlier than anticipated...The handover of power alleviated some of the Middle East risk premium and bid equities back to the highs of Friday's range...more Featured Article	 Arnold Is Hitting His Marks BusinessWeek Online From Hollywood action hero to Sacramento mover and shaker, Arnold Schwarzenegger has made the transition to politician look easy... more BusinessWeek... Money Matters SuzeImage	House Rules: How to Decide If It's Time to Own Rather Than Rent by Suze Orman Home ownership is the greatest AMERICAN DREAM, is it not? But listen up, my friends: If you do not have a clue what it really costs to own a home, how much of a house you can truly afford, and if you are just plain capable of owning a home, I am here to tell you that your dream will most likely turn into your greatest financial nightmare... more Money Matters topics... News from Reuters U.S. Consumer Spending Surges, Prices Up Mon 9:09pm ET - Reuters U.S. consumer spending jumped last month but inflation accounted for half the gain, the government said on Monday, cementing expectations of a Federal Reserve interest rate rise this week. · 	GM: U.S. Auto Sales Weaker in June · 	Wal-Mart Warns on Sales, Blames Weather · 	Stocks, Bonds Drop; Oil at 9-Week Low · 	More Finance Firms Move Jobs to India more business news... Investing Ideas UMB Fund Has Two-Pronged Attack Investor's Business Daily UMB Scout Small Cap fund uses fundamentals and technical tools. Shakeouts In The Handle Help Drive Away Weak Holders Investor's Business Daily When a stock shapes a handle, quiet is better. In most cases, that is. Bassett Builds Strong Q2 Motley Fool The furniture manufacturer posts solid second-quarter results. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Insurance on Yahoo! Finance The Lowdown on Life Insurance Medical Exams insure.com You will probably be asked to have a medical examination when you apply for life insurance, depending on your age and the amount of insurance you're buying. This can include a basic physical exam, urine specimen, blood work, EKG, and X-ray... My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Multiply your age by your household income. Divide by 10. What does the resulting number mean? 	The maximum you should keep in a tax-deferred plan 	The total wages on which your Social Security benefits will be based 	A rough rule of thumb for what you'll need for retirement 	What your net worth should be today      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
