20050530
 Wayback Machine	  APR	MAY	JUN Previous capture	30	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Sunday, May 29, 2005, 8:56PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories Summer Travel Guide 2005 Forbes.com To help you choose the perfect summer travel destination, here is a guide to 60 great international hotels -- five in each of 12 popular summer travel regions around the world. Number of Millionaires Hits All-Time High The Wall Street Journal Online The number of millionaires in the U.S. increased to a record last year, boosted by gains in stocks and global financial markets. The Next Wave of Sex Drugs The Wall Street Journal Online The drug industry has made billions by taking the stigma out of the once-taboo subject of erectile dysfunction. Now, it is targeting an equally delicate problem.  Locating Affordable Luxury Homes BusinessWeek Online Here's a look at the areas where luxury homes are a stretch and where they're within comfortable reach.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,542.55	+4.95	(+0.05%) Nasdaq	2,075.73	+4.49	(+0.22%) S&P 500	1,198.78	+1.16	(+0.10%) 10-Yr Bond	4.073%	-0.01 NYSE Volume	1,381,654,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,266,176,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Tokyo Stocks Rise; Dollar Up Vs. Yen, Euro Sun 8:53PM  ET - AP Tokyo stocks opened slightly higher Monday as the U.S. dollar strengthened against the Japanese yen and the euro following France's rejection to the proposed European Union constitution. · 	U.S. Growth Likely to Encourage Investors AP · 	EU, Microsoft Aim at Antitrust Compromise AP · 	Report: German to Become Airbus' Next CEO AP · 	Iraq Minister Warns of Fuel, Power Hikes AP · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Selling Your Home? Make Sure the Price is Right Bankrate.com Pricing it lower than it should be is cheating yourself, but going overboard can lead to no sale at all.  Money Matters Building a Nest Egg on One Salary by Suze Orman Whether you are a single parent, or a couple with one of you at home full-time, figuring out how to pay for the everyday expenses of being a family while also saving for retirement is a tough challenge, but it is by no means impossible. Here's how ... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Thinking Of Selling Everything Before The Close? Don't Pull The Trigger Yet! TradingMarkets.com You'll appreciate--and enjoy--this new research from Larry Connors. Four Stocks You Need To Know About For Friday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list... Highlights of rising and falling U.S. stocks MarketWatch A roundup of advancers and decliners in the day's trading. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories InnoMedia Breaks New Ground With Entry-Level MTA 5410s Videophones for the Mass Market Sun 8:00PM ET - PR Newswire NSTAR and UWUA Local 369 Reach Agreement Sun 6:06PM ET - Business Wire Bull & Lifshitz, LLP Announces Class Action Against Maytag Corporation -- MYG Sun 1:03PM ET - PrimeZone Media Network more Popular Stories...      Inside Yahoo! Finance What Factors Influence Your Credit Score?  Learn about the factors that are used to determine your score and the list of reasons that may be provided on why your score isn't higher.  See also: Credit Center  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which global region had the highest CEO turnover rate in 2004? 	North America 	Europe 	Asia-Pacific   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
