20040712
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	12	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Monday, July 12 2004 4:41am ET - U.S. Markets open in 4 hours and 49 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,213.22	+41.66	(+0.41%) Nasdaq	1,946.33	+11.01	(+0.57%) S&P 500	1,112.81	+3.70	(+0.33%) 10-Yr Bond	4.466%	-0.004	  NYSE Volume	1,187,448,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,397,956,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Earnings to Set Tone for Stocks Sun 8:58pm ET - Reuters Earnings news will drive Wall Street this week, but concerns about slowing profit growth and higher oil prices could keep a cap on any gains. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Mon 4:38am ET Buyers found their way back to the market today as the past five sessions' losses (down 2.5-5.5% for the Dow, Nasdaq, and S&P 500) presented ample opportunity for bargain-hunting...more Featured Article	 WEEKAHEAD-Emerging bonds seen stable, a wary eye on Russia Reuters With a wary eye on Russia's banking problems, emerging market sovereign bond investors are expected to hold their positions over the coming days as Latin American economies show signs of growth... more Reuters... Money Matters SuzeImage	Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters topics... News from Reuters CSFB CFO Out, Latest Exit at Firm Mon 4:08am ET - Reuters Credit Suisse First Boston Chief Financial Officer Barbara Yastine is leaving the investment bank, according to a person familiar with the matter, adding to upheaval at the firm after the ouster of its chief executive 16 days ago. · 	Trade Talks Move Slowly as Deadline Looms · 	Citizens Communications CEO Resigns · 	Nikkei Jumps as Political Worries Fade · 	Russian Oil Magnate's Trial Resumes Mon. more business news... Investing Ideas How To Stay With A Winning Stock TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry sets up the index action and gives you a stock pick. Using my 401(k) instead of payday loan Bankrate.com Borrowing from a 401 usually a bad idea, but not in this case. Sentiment picture continues to deteriorate CBS MarketWatch The past 10 trading sessions have provided a textbook illustration of how sentiment behaves during a bear market. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Funds on Yahoo! Finance Why Exchange-Traded Funds? ETFZone Exchange-Traded Funds, or ETFs, are index funds that trade just like stocks on major stock exchanges. Want to invest in the market quickly and cheaply? ETFs are the most practical vehicle...More  See also: Top-Performing ETFs My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. During 2003, how did the average stock analyst's recommendations perform compared to his or her benchmark? 	+7.4% 	+2.2% 	No Difference 	-3.1% 	-9.3%      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
