20040720
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	20	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Tuesday, July 20 2004 4:39am ET - U.S. Markets open in 4 hours and 51 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,094.06	-45.72	(-0.45%) Nasdaq	1,883.83	+0.68	(+0.04%) S&P 500	1,100.90	-0.49	(-0.04%) 10-Yr Bond	4.361%	+0.000	  NYSE Volume	1,309,651,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,778,277,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Greenspan Expected to Say All's Well Tue 1:37am ET - Reuters U.S. lawmakers get a chance on Tuesday to grill Alan Greenspan on the significance of a June slowdown, but economists expect the Federal Reserve chief to pin it on a summer lull and stress that all's well with the economy. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Tue 4:33am ET There was a sense of deja vu today as the indices delivered another erratic performance that saw little conviction from either buyers or sellers... Accordingly, the indices ended the session mixed and little changed for the day...more Featured Article	 New Tack For Cell Phones: Keep Them Simple, Stupid Investor's Business Daily The cell phone industry is packing features like Web browsers, cameras and music players into phones. Yet are those features getting easier to use? more Investor's Business Daily... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Google to Disclose Financials Tue 3:20am ET - Reuters Google is expected to give an indication of how much it expects bidders to pay for its shares in an updated initial public offering filing as soon as this week, according to potential investors. · 	Coors, Molson Confirm Merger Talks · 	Asian Techs Off; Dollar Awaits Greenspan · 	EU Approves Sony-BMG Music Merger · 	Delta Posts $2 Bln Loss But Shares Rise more business news... Investing Ideas Flextronics, Corning grab spotlight after hours CBS MarketWatch Shares of tech product manufacturer Flextronics International fell in after-hours trading Monday after its earnings report disappointed investors but fiber-optics maker Corning rose on better-than-expected results and an improved third-quarter outlook. Martha Stewart Living Shares Retreat TheStreet.com The company's stock falls after an enormous relief rally because of the founder's sentencing Friday. Why did NovaStar hire a CFO? CBS MarketWatch Hand it to NovaStar Financial: It did something right -- hiring a CFO. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Insurance on Yahoo! Finance The Facts of Life Smartmoney.com Dealing with agressive agents, wading through dense jargon, all while confronting your own mortality — buying life insurance is the Perfect Storm of unpleasant financial-planning chores. But don't fret. More...  See also: Life Insurance Calculators My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following products is NOT sold by a company that is one of the top ten IPO gainers in the last year? 	Biopharmaceuticals 	Chicken Wings 	Fuel Cells 	Fine Jewelry      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
