20050130
 Wayback Machine	  DEC	JAN	FEB Previous capture	30	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, January 29, 2005, 9:09PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories Luxury Hot Rods Forbes.com Your guide to the hottest high-performance hot rod brands, like Mercedes' AMG cars and BMW's M series. In some cases, power and torque are increased over base models by 100% or more. The Inside Track to College Cash BusinessWeek Online An important deadline is approaching for college financial aid applicants. The sooner students file their FAFSA, the better their chances are of receiving money. Hotels 'Go to the Mattresses' The Wall Street Journal Online Hotels are in an all-out battle over beds. Marriott International Inc. today will launch a major initiative to replace nearly every bed in seven of its chains.  The Bubble Bowl Forbes.com Five years ago, many young internet companies spent wads of stockholder cash for 30-second spots during the Super Bowl. Where are they now?    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,427.20	-40.20	(-0.38%) Nasdaq	2,035.83	-11.32	(-0.55%) S&P 500	1,171.36	-3.19	(-0.27%) 10-Yr Bond	4.138%	-0.069 NYSE Volume	1,642,010,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,101,825,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Top Stories OPEC Panel Recommends No Change in Quota Sat 7:58PM  ET - Associated Press A key OPEC committee recommended Saturday that the oil cartel keep its current output quota unchanged, its president said, signaling that oil producers believe current prices near $50 a barrel are not too high. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Comcast, Time Warner Said to Want Adelphia - Associated Press · 	Bush Committed to New World Trade Talks - Associated Press · 	WTO Members Agree to Step Up Treaty Talks - Associated Press · 	China, EU Tell Different Economic Tales - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Yes, pay off that old debt Bankrate.com I read a previous question that you answered that really helped me concerning "Getting rid of an old charge-off."  Money Matters The Case For The Prenup by Suze Orman If you believe in insurance to protect your life, your health, your home, your car—why don't you also believe in marriage insurance? more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Three Stocks You Need To Know About For Monday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Still Sweet On Dividend Stocks BusinessWeek Online Stocks That Dwell Below 50-Day Tend To Warn Of Sell-Off Ahead Investor's Business Daily The 50-day moving average can help you analyze the stock's strength and determine if you should sell. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories CyberBrew Signs Significant Franchise Agreement with Top U.S. Franchise Marketer Sat 8:24PM ET - Business Wire San Jose Woman Celebrates Winning $1 Million On ''The Big Spin'' Show Sat 7:30PM ET - Business Wire Fred Meyer Rolls Out New Rewards Card in Oregon and Western Washington That Pays Customers to Shop Sat 3:00PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...    Inside Yahoo! Finance Improve Your Credit Score  Experian Credit scores can vary from month to month-even day to day, sometimes. This is because it is calculated based on the credit data available for you at the credit bureau on the day the score is requested by a lender.  See also: Today's Rates | Credit Center  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.How does the number of restated financial filings for public companies in 2004 compare to the number from 2003? 	Decreased 28% 	Decreased 8% 	Unchanged 	Increased 8% 	Increased 28%    (You'll also see how other users have answered.)    World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
