20040713
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	13	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Tuesday, July 13 2004 3:46am ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 44 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,238.22	+25.00	(+0.24%) Nasdaq	1,936.92	-9.41	(-0.48%) S&P 500	1,114.35	+1.54	(+0.14%) 10-Yr Bond	4.443%	-0.023	  NYSE Volume	1,112,439,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,515,144,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Google Applies to List on Nasdaq Mon 6:47pm ET - Reuters Google Inc. said it plans to list its $2.7 billion initial public offering -- the most hotly anticipated of the year -- on the Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. , dealing a blow to the New York Stock Exchange. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Tue 1:28am ET The major indices started the day with large losses and spent most of the session trading along their lows; however, around 13 ET, the market staged a broad-based rally good enough for a split finish for the blue chips and tech...more Featured Article	 The Benefits Trap BusinessWeek Online Old-line companies have pledged a trillion dollars to retirees. Now they're struggling to compete with new rivals, and many can't pay the bill... more BusinessWeek... Money Matters SuzeImage	Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters topics... News from Reuters Morgan Stanley Settles Sex Bias Case Tue 12:34am ET - Reuters Morgan Stanley agreed on Monday to pay $54 million to settle sex bias charges filed on behalf of hundreds of women who complained they were denied raises and promotions and subjected to lewd behavior at the huge U.S. investment bank. · 	Small Business Optimism Gains in June · 	Tech Shares Hit; Oil's Retreat Lifts Dow · 	Oracle Extends PeopleSoft Offer · 	Domino's Pizza IPO Prices Below Targets more business news... Investing Ideas Junk Bonds: Safer Fixed-Income Bet? Investor's Business Daily Bond investors have been running for cover amid rising interest rates. Seeing Signs Of Failure? Sell Before Stock Drops 7% to 8% Investor's Business Daily Learn to spot faulty breakouts and sell losing stocks before they fall 7% to 8%. Vail for Sale? Motley Fool Rumors are driving the resorts' stock to record highs. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Assuming a Seller's Mortgage MortgageProfessor For years, we heard little about assumptions because market rates were so low. Now that rates are above their lows, and may rise further, we can expect that assumptions will receive increasing attention...More  See also: Mortgage Rates | Find a Home My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. During 2003, how did the average stock analyst's recommendations perform compared to his or her benchmark? 	+7.4% 	+2.2% 	No Difference 	-3.1% 	-9.3%      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
