20020923
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	23	Next capture 2001	2002	2003 8,927 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Monday, September 23 2002 6:05am ET - U.S. Markets open in 3 hours and 25 minutes. Enter symbol(s)   Symbol Lookup   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	7,986.02	+43.63	(+0.55%) Nasdaq	1,221.09	+4.64	(+0.38%) S&P 500	845.39	+2.07	(+0.25%) 10-Yr Bond	3.776%	-0.004	  NYSE Volume	1,765,752,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,798,690,000 Quote data provided by Reuters  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Education Glossary, Investing 101... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... Bonds Rates, Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards...New Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Analyzer... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, 401k, Basics... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Qwest to Restate $950 Mln in Sales Mon 3:35am ET Qwest Communications International Inc., a local U.S. telephone company facing federal probes of its accounting practices, said on Sunday it expected to restate $950 million in revenues and costs for swaps of optical-network capacity. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 5:10pm ET Closing Summary: The market was choppy for most of the session. After opening higher the Dow and the Nasdaq were on either side of unchanged all day. The volatility can be largely attributed to it being a triple witching session as contracts for futures, S&P options and individual stock options...more Finance Spotlight ·	Find a Mortgage Get up to 4 offers.	·	Research Reports Wall Street at great prices. ·	Credit Reports Get yours online for $9.95	·	Real-Time Package Live streaming quotes for $9.95/mo  Business News Verizon Wireless Starts Marketing Effort Mon 12:21am ET Verizon Wireless, the nation's largest wireless telephone company, on Monday said it was rolling out a major marketing effort to officially launch its service that allows customers to download games, entertainment and information onto their cell phones.  Salomon, Grubman Close to Settlements-FT Mon 5:49am ET Salomon Smith Barney and its former telecoms analyst Jack Grubman are close to agreement with regulators settling investigations into allegedly misleading investment advice, the Financial Times reported on Monday.  JDS Uniphase Lowers Sales Guidance Mon 5:49am ET JDS Uniphase Corp. , the world's largest supplier of fibre-optic components and modules, on Monday lowered first-quarter sales guidance because of continuing weakness in its telecommunications markets.  Some Tyco Board Members Knew of Pay-NYT Mon 5:49am ET Though the board of Tyco International has said that it was unaware of the extravagant pay and loans given to top executives, minutes of the board's compensation committee show it knew of many of the payments months before the board took steps to disclose them, The New York Times reported Monday.  U.S. Airlines Said to Seek More Govt Aid Mon 5:49am ET The nation's big airlines are preparing to ask the federal government for a new round of emergency financial help, as the industry deteriorates further amid weak passenger traffic and rising fuel costs, The Wall Street Journal reported Monday.  more business news...     My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. In what main respect do 529 plans and Education IRAs differ? 	Whether you or your child owns the account 	Deductibility of contributions at the federal level 	Whether or not your child's school can be out-of-state 	Deductibility of withdrawals at the federal level     (You'll also see how other users have answered.)  Get 25 FREE Trades when you open a TD Waterouse Brokerage Account Today!   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · Denmark  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Norway  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Sweden  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2002 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy - Terms of Service To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy Quote technology by TIBCO Software, Inc. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
