20051023
 Wayback Machine	  SEP	OCT	NOV Previous capture	23	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, October 22, 2005, 9:10PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories The World’s Greatest Art Thefts Forbes.com The Mona Lisa stolen? It almost happened. Forbes has the story on that and the 12 greatest art thefts of our time. Penthouses at 30,000 Feet BusinessWeek Online The super-rich are buying widebody planes and remodeling to their own preference—taking luxury and convenience into the stratosphere. Selling Wine to China Inc.com There are 1.3 billion potential wine drinkers in China, but exporting to this market means more than just translating the words on a label.  The Most Fattening Cocktails Forbes.com After a night of drinking cocktails, most people will not only wake up with a hangover, they'll wake up fatter too.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,215.22	-65.88	(-0.64%) Nasdaq	2,082.21	+14.10	(+0.68%) S&P 500	1,179.59	+1.79	(+0.15%) 10-Yr Bond	4.39%	-0.07 NYSE Volume	2,496,084,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,827,152,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	115.96 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8368 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Columnists Money Matters With Suze Orman Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Corporate Bond Prices Give Clearer Picture Sat 7:55PM  ET - AP Given Wall Street's hair-trigger propensity for punishing a company's stock for bad news -- and over-inflating the price for good news -- it's become harder to use share price as a useful indicator of a company's overall health. · 	Mom: Russia Afraid of Khodorkovsky Clout AP · 	Google's Stock Scales New Heights AP · 	Bush Treads Lightly With Guest Worker Plan AP · 	Weyerhaeuser Cutbacks Hit Timber Towns AP · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories... Reinventing Retirement Reinventing RetirementThe Four Faces of Retirement by Ken Dychtwald, Ph.D. Ever wish you could look into the future to see what retirement holds in store? Wish no more. Read about the four types of retirement and the role planning plays in each. View our other columnists here  Featured Article Has Oil Topped Out? Investor's Business Daily Those waiting for oil's long rally to officially run out of gas may have gotten their long-awaited signal this week. Is the dip a buying opportunity?  Investing Ideas Block Out Emotions, Follow Trading Rules When Investing Investor's Business Daily Emotion can be your biggest enemy when it comes to investing. In fact, people physically incapable of feeling emotion may have a big edge on other... Buy recommendation lifts service stocks at close MarketWatch NEW YORK - Oil-service stocks closed the session higher Friday after Citigroup told investors that now is a good time to buy into the group, given the recent sharp correction. The Fool's Look Ahead Motley Fool Dots, bots, and clinical cots will play parts in the week of news ahead. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Statement By The White House Press Secretary Sat 7:53PM ET - PR Newswire Refco, Inc. Class Action Investigation Expanded by Shalov Stone & Bonner LLP to Reach the Period Through and Including October 18, 2005 Sat 3:04PM ET - Business Wire Say Goodbye to Frustrating Investment Strategies -- Building an Effective Investment Plan is a Breeze with the New Value Stock Selector Software from Aptus Communications Sat 1:19PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...     Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.62%	5.79% 15-yr Fixed	5.22%	5.48% 5/1 ARM	5.17%	6.3% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Finance Quiz Q. How much economic output is lost each year due to worker illness? 	$260B 	$395B 	$564B 	$812B  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
