20050211
 Wayback Machine	  JAN	FEB	MAR Previous capture	11	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Friday, February 11, 2005, 3:54AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 36 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,749.61	+85.50	(+0.80%) Nasdaq	2,053.10	+0.55	(+0.03%) S&P 500	1,197.01	0.00	(0.00%) 10-Yr Bond	4.073%	0.00 NYSE Volume	1,502,597,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,109,182,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Top Stories Dell Sales Rise but Profit Slips on Charge Fri 12:28AM  ET - Associated Press Dell Inc. set a record for sales and topped Wall Street's earnings expectations in the fourth quarter, but the personal computer juggernaut indicated that revenue for early 2005 could fall short of analysts' predictions. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Thu 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Stocks Up As Investors Eye Deficit Data - Associated Press · 	'04 Deficit Hits New High, Dips in Dec. - Associated Press · 	Sara Lee Names CEO, Returns Focus to Food - Associated Press · 	Riggs OKs $643 Million Buyout by PNC - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Using 401(k) money to improve a home Bankrate.com Dear Tax Talk, I bought a foreclosed house, which I now live in. Prior to moving in, I replaced all of the second-floor carpet with hardwood, the second-floor laundry room and bathroom from vinyl to tiles plus new toilet, the first-floor dining area from carpet to tiles, the foyer from laminate to tiles, the kitchen from vinyl to tiles and the first-floor half bath got a new toilet and tiles instead of vinyl.  Money Matters Spend More Today for a Better Retirement Tomorrow by Suze Orman Instead, I want to show you one simple move that can put you on pace to be able to afford retirement. And it has nothing to do with saving. It's all about spending. more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Three Stocks You Need To Know About For Friday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Longer-Term Traders: Improve Your Odds With Swing Trading TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry tells you how. Four Stocks You Need To Know About For Thursday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Auto Club: Gas Prices Level off - How Long Can It Last? Fri 3:01AM ET - Business Wire AirNet Communications Unveils Next Generation SDR Product Architecture Fri 3:00AM ET - Business Wire Texas Instruments Collaborates with Orange and Trusted Logic to Demonstrate Wireless Security Needs, Simplify Wireless Payment Experience Fri 3:00AM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...   Yahoo! Finance Weekend As Valentine’s Day approaches, we take a look at flowers and chocolates, the world of high-end lingerie, and the most romantic getaways for two -- all of which could add up to the best weekend ever. This week's edition includes: Yahoo! Finance Weekend · The Most Expensive Lingerie · The Most Romantic Hotels · How to Avoid Flower Scams · A Guy's Guide to Buying Perfume · Cheap -- but not cheesy -- gift ideas  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. What was the total dollar cost, measured in loss of economic productivity, of Americans deleting spam last year? 	$7.2B 	$14.1B 	$21.6B 	$31.2B     (You'll also see how other users have answered.)    World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
