20050828
 Wayback Machine	  JUL	AUG	OCT Previous capture	28	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Sunday, August 28, 2005, 3:48AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories The Most Commonly Stolen Vehicles ForbesAutos.com Just as some cars and trucks prove popular with buyers, others are irresistible to thieves. See if your car is one that's going to attract the kind of attention you may not want. The Bulls of Baghdad Trader Monthly In a nation plagued by bombings, kidnappings and political strife, a trading floor struggles to survive. Come spend a day at the Iraq Stock Exchange. Nanotechnology Hits the Tennis Court The Wall Street Journal Online Tennis racket makers are now featuring nanotechnology in their new rackets -- they claim it adds power and precision to players' strokes.  The Most Expensive Golf Gear Forbes.com Does the equipment make the golfer, or is it the other way around? Here's what to buy if you want to find out for yourself.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,397.29	-53.34	(-0.51%) Nasdaq	2,120.77	-13.60	(-0.64%) S&P 500	1,205.10	-7.27	(-0.60%) 10-Yr Bond	4.189%	+0.03 NYSE Volume	1,541,781,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,298,658,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	110.20 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8138 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Hundreds Back Striking Northwest Workers Sat 7:55PM  ET - AP Hundreds of people gathered Saturday in support of striking Northwest Airlines workers, one week after union members walked off the job. · 	Greenspan Confident About His Successor AP · 	Experts Warn Debt May Threaten Economy AP · 	Fed Member Promotes Diversification AP · 	Martha Stewart Confinement Set to End AP · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Scooters: The Perfect Second Car? BusinessWeek Online High gas prices and traffic: They're the banes of a driver's existence. With neither about to improve anytime soon, there may be a small solution to these big problems. Scooters are an increasingly popular way to zip to errands, make parking a snap, and cut down on fuel costs.  Investing Ideas Four Stocks Mispriced by the Market Morningstar.com Test your contrarian picks to see if they're on the money. Who will benefit when oil starts to fall? MarketWatch BOULDER, Colo. -- The oil market is starting to respond to every piece of news the market can muster -- a tell tale sign of deep speculation within the sector. Be Ready For Breakouts To Avoid Letting Emotion Overwhelm You Investor's Business Daily When it comes to investing, it's always a good idea to set your emotions aside. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories NICE Announces Filing of $220 Million Universal Shelf Registration Statement Sun 12:08AM ET - Business Wire California Retains High Percentage of Military Bases and Personnel in Final BRAC Rounds Sat 9:21PM ET - Business Wire Delta Customers Affected by Hurricane Katrina May Change Travel Plans Without Penalties or Fees Sat 9:09PM ET - PrimeZone Media Network more Popular Stories...     Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.31%	5.46% 15-yr Fixed	4.91%	5.18% 5/1 ARM	4.85%	6% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Finance Quiz Q. Which country has the highest percentage of workers contributing to private pension plans (including 401k accounts)? 	United States 	Japan 	Hong Kong 	France  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
