20041214
 Wayback Machine	  NOV	DEC	JAN Previous capture	14	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Tuesday, December 14, 2004, 4:15AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 15 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,638.32	+95.10	(+0.90%) Nasdaq	2,148.50	+20.43	(+0.96%) S&P 500	1,198.68	0.00	(0.00%) 10-Yr Bond	4.151%	-0.005 NYSE Volume	1,463,049,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,091,750,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Tax Guide,  Calculators...  Top Stories Analysts: Fed Will Boost Interest Rates Tue 3:12AM  ET - Associated Press With a fall in oil prices easing inflation concerns, the Federal Reserve is expected to continue its easy-does-it approach to raising interest rates, boosting a key rate by a moderate quarter-point at its final meeting of the year Tuesday. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Mon 4:25 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Stocks Close Up on Oracle-PeopleSoft Deal - Associated Press · 	Oracle Scoops Up PeopleSoft in $10.3B Deal - Associated Press · 	Retail Sales Inch Up 0.1 Percent in Nov. - Associated Press · 	Egypt Signs Trade Deal With Israel, U.S. - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Holiday Gift Guide fade Holiday Gift GuideGifts for Car Nuts Looking to spend some money this holiday season on somebody who loves cars? These are the best gifts on the market for your favorite automotive aficionado. Special Edition	 Fed Watch - Will Interest Rates Rise? With a fall in oil prices easing inflation concerns, the Federal Reserve is expected to boost a key rate by a quarter-point at its final meeting of the year Tuesday. What will it mean to you and your money? Sponsored by:  Money Matters Suze OrmanWhat's Your Financial Sign? by Suze Orman When It Comes to Money, Is Your Future a Horrorscope? Whether you believe in the guiding force of your astrological sign or not, I am here to tell you that you have a moneyscope... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Four Stocks You Need To Know About For Tuesday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Highlights of rising and falling U.S. stocks CBS MarketWatch Stocks to watch Gas pains gone at Cheniere CBS MarketWatch So many stories, so little time. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Bourses start higher on late Street rally Tue 3:25AM ET - FT.com ACCOR: Update on Accor/Club Mediterranee Synergies Tue 3:17AM ET - PR Newswire Nikkei Up 1 Pct, Blue Chips Rally on Data Tue 2:59AM ET - Reuters more Popular Stories...    Inside Yahoo! Finance Improve Your Credit Score  ConsumerInfo.com Credit scores can vary from month to month-even day to day, sometimes. This is because it is calculated based on the credit data available for you at the credit bureau on the day the score is requested by a lender.  See also: Today's Rates | Credit Center  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.What is the historic average of the insider sell to buy ratio? 	1.5 	2.5 	3.5 	5.5    (You'll also see how other users have answered.)    World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
