20020802
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	AUG	SEP Previous capture	2	Next capture 2001	2002	2003 8,927 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Thursday, August 1 2002 9:44pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s)   Symbol Lookup   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	8,506.62	-229.97	(-2.63%) Nasdaq	1,280.00	-48.26	(-3.63%) S&P 500	884.66	-26.96	(-2.96%) 10-Yr Bond	4.401%	-0.064	  NYSE Volume	1,661,639,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,552,775,000 Quote data provided by Reuters  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Education Glossary, Investing 101... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... Bonds Rates, Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards...New Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Analyzer... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, 401k, Basics... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Stocks Skid as Recovery Questioned Thu 4:34pm ET Stocks buckled on Thursday, snapping a four-day rise in the broad market, as surprisingly weak readings on manufacturing growth and construction spending fanned fears the U.S. economic recovery is on wobbly ground. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Thu 5:05pm ET A weaker than expected ISM Index for July rattled investors today as it raised concerns about the pace, and sustainability, of the economic recovery... In doing so, it led to a broad-based sell-off as investors, in turn, were left questioning the sustainability of the recent rebound effort by the...more Finance Spotlight ·	Find a Mortgage Get up to 4 offers.	·	Research Reports Wall Street at great prices. ·	Credit Reports Get yours online for $9.95	·	Real-Time Package Live streaming quotes for $9.95/mo  Business News Former WorldCom CFO, Controller Arrested Thu 9:18pm ET Two former senior officials of telecommunications giant WorldCom Inc. were arrested on Thursday for their role in the $3.85 billion accounting scandal that ended in the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history and rocked confidence in corporate America.  Disney Third-Quarter Net Income Falls Thu 7:50pm ET Entertainment giant Walt Disney Co. took investors on a downhill ride on Thursday, as profits fell sharply in its third quarter due to weakness at its theme parks, where it warned of signs of further softening.  Cisco Shares Close Down More Than 8 Pct Thu 9:18pm ET Shares of Cisco Systems Inc. closed down more than 8 percent on Thursday and the company reassured investors that its senior executives stood ready to certify the accuracy of its financial results, one concern cited by analysts as a reason for the stock's decline.  Exxon, Shell Tumble on Weak Fuel Prices Thu 9:18pm ET Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch/Shell, two of the world's top oil companies, on Thursday reported sharply lower quarterly earnings, stung by the depressed business of producing gasoline, heating oil and other fuels.  Factory Growth Stalls, Recovery in Doubt Thu 5:16pm ET U.S. manufacturing growth nearly ground to a halt in July, a report said on Thursday, a sign the economy has cooled significantly from earlier this year and casting doubt on the strength of the recovery.  more business news...     My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 20 minutes  Finance Quiz Q. With a mortgage, what's the difference between the interest rate and the APR? 	The APR is the interest rate, just compounded annually 	The APR includes closing costs 	There is no difference     (You'll also see how other users have answered.)  Open a TD Waterhouse Brokerage account today and get 25 FREE Trades!   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · Denmark  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Norway  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Sweden  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2002 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy - Terms of Service To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy Quote technology by TIBCO Software, Inc. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
