20040716
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	16	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Friday, July 16 2004 4:52am ET - U.S. Markets open in 4 hours and 38 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,163.16	-45.64	(-0.45%) Nasdaq	1,912.71	-2.17	(-0.11%) S&P 500	1,106.69	-4.78	(-0.43%) 10-Yr Bond	4.485%	+0.001	  NYSE Volume	1,405,310,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,673,625,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories IBM Posts 6th Straight Rise in Earnings Thu 7:16pm ET - Reuters IBM on Thursday reported its sixth consecutive quarterly rise in profit, as strength in computer hardware and services largely shielded it from the shortfalls that hit other technology companies. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Thu 1:53pm ET Market has been in "rally-mode" since the release of the Philly Fed Index at noon, but even so, the major indices have found it difficult to make much headway beyond the unchanged mark...more Special Edition	Provided by Forbes.com world.JPG	Top International Stock Picks It's a big world out there--49,000 stocks trade on overseas markets. We list 125 foreign stocks that are cheap by at least one of three classic measures. more special edition... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Citigroup Pays the Piper, Wachovia Gains Fri 3:05am ET - Reuters Citigroup Inc. on Thursday said second-quarter profit fell 73 percent because of huge legal costs tied to WorldCom, Enron and other corporate scandals. · 	Samsung Leads Asian Tech Rebound · 	Pfizer Trims Revenue View, Shares Fall · 	Samsung Profit Up, Growth Seen Slowing · 	Bies: Fed Must Watch for Higher Inflation more business news... Investing Ideas Is tech a 'ticking time bomb?' CBS MarketWatch Quick hits: Time to Bite on Some Fast-Food Stocks TheStreet.com Stellar quarters from McDonald's and Yum! Brands could make these cheap stocks attractive. Consider This Before Getting Short TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry sets up the action and gives you a stock idea. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Insurance on Yahoo! Finance The Facts of Life Smartmoney.com Dealing with agressive agents, wading through dense jargon, all while confronting your own mortality — buying life insurance is the Perfect Storm of unpleasant financial-planning chores. But don't fret. More...  See also: Life Insurance Calculators My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following products is NOT sold by a company that is one of the top ten IPO gainers in the last year? 	Biopharmaceuticals 	Chicken Wings 	Fuel Cells 	Fine Jewelry      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
