20050403
 Wayback Machine	  MAR	APR	MAY Previous capture	3	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Sunday, April 3, 2005, 12:33PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories Your Next TV BusinessWeek Online It will be flat, ultra high-tech and made in Asia. Now, American companies, including Dell and HP, want a piece of the action. What’s Next for Apple? Business 2.0 The company that changed the face of personal computing and digital music is looking for the next big thing. Honey, I Outsourced the Kids The Wall Street Journal Online Don’t feel like potty-training little Johnnie or teaching Suze how to ride a bike? Then outsource it.  Are Workplaces Anti-Gray? Associated Press Will gray hair hurt your chances for career advancement? Some say “no.” Others argue it’s a question of gender.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,404.30	-99.46	(-0.95%) Nasdaq	1,984.81	-14.42	(-0.72%) S&P 500	1,172.92	-7.67	(-0.65%) 10-Yr Bond	4.451%	-0.05 NYSE Volume	2,189,399,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,914,674,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Post-Prison Stewart Not Shy About Sharing Sun 7:36AM  ET - Associated Press Her middle name is Helen. She likes to spend a lot of time with eggs. And she has no use at all for that clunky black gizmo on her ankle. In the month since Martha Stewart was released from prison, after serving five months for her role in a stock-sale scandal, she has not been shy about sharing. · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET Briefing.com · 	Stocks Drop on Service Sector Growth, Oil Associated Press · 	Airlines Raising Fares $10 Per Round Trip Associated Press · 	FBI Joins Delphi Accounting Investigation Associated Press · 	Blockbuster CEO Gets Hefty Compensation Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Martha Stewart Not Shy About Sharing Associated Press Her middle name is Helen. She likes to spend a lot of time with eggs. And she has no use at all for that clunky black gizmo on her ankle. In the month since Martha Stewart was released from prison, after serving five months for her role in a stock-sale scandal, she has not been shy about sharing.  Money Matters Financial Planners: How To Pick A Good One—And Why The Best One Might Just Be You by Suze Orman We’ve become a nation addicted to contract labor. What past generations did for themselves, we now “outsource” to someone else. But we need to talk about one area of your personal life where I think it’s imperative for you to do as much of the work as possible: your finances. more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Four Stocks You Need To Know About For Monday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Wait A Minimum Of Seven Weeks For Stock To Form A Sound Base Investor's Business Daily Remember the advice that Kwai Chang Caine got in the old TV show "Kung Fu"? Patience, grasshopper. Value: the Best Bet Forbes Magazine more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories U.S. Warns EU on China Arms Embargo Sun 12:10PM ET - Reuters Trendy Sneakers Fuel Nike's Profits Sun 11:42AM ET - Reuters MobileVoIP Live! Featured at The National Show 2005 Sun 11:34AM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...     Yahoo! Finance Tax Center Have you done your taxes? Find help in our Tax Center!  Tips, tools, and guides to make filing fast and easy	11days90x80.jpg  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. How have the companies with the highest corporate governance ratings performed against the S&P Index over the last 5 years? 	-5.3% 	+3.1% 	+7.4% 	+15.9%   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
