20040711
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	11	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Sunday, July 11 2004 4:55am ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,213.22	+41.66	(+0.41%) Nasdaq	1,946.33	+11.01	(+0.57%) S&P 500	1,112.81	+3.70	(+0.33%) 10-Yr Bond	4.466%	-0.004	  NYSE Volume	1,187,448,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,397,956,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Small Business Gains, Sees Higher Prices Thu 7:04pm ET - Reuters Harry Brown, who runs a small company that manufactures precision engineered fasteners and forgings, says his business doubled in the past year and his work force increased by 22 percent. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Sat 10:03am ET Weekly Recap - It was a short week of trading, but a disruptive one nonetheless for the market.  Credit for that goes to the software industry, which checked in with multiple warnings, many of which were attributed to delays in purchasing decisions by enterprise customers, a batch of...more Special Edition	Provided by SmartMoney.com love_90x80.gif	With This Debt, I Thee Wed I'm getting married this summer. My fiancé has a large amount of outstanding debt in his country of origin, France. I want to make absolutely sure I won't assume or be responsible for any portion of debt accrued before our marriage. Is there any way to avoid this? more special edition... Money Matters House Rules: How to Decide If It's Time to Own Rather Than Rent by Suze Orman Home ownership is the greatest AMERICAN DREAM, is it not? But listen up, my friends: If you do not have a clue what it really costs to own a home, how much of a house you can truly afford, and if you are just plain capable of owning a home, I am here to tell you that your dream will most likely turn into your greatest financial nightmare. more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Apple Reinvention Transforms Stock Value Sat 11:07pm ET - Reuters The more than 50 percent rise in Apple Computer Inc.'s stock price this year has mirrored the brisk sales of its market-leading iPod digital music player and growth at its retail stores. · 	Stocks to Dance to Earnings Tune · 	Hedge Funds Brace for New Rules · 	Trade Powers Meet as Deadline Looms · 	MCI Files Suit Against Ex-CEO Ebbers more business news... Investing Ideas How To Stay With A Winning Stock TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry sets up the index action and gives you a stock pick. Using my 401(k) instead of payday loan Bankrate.com Borrowing from a 401 usually a bad idea, but not in this case. Focus On 52-Week High In Base Following Bear Market Investor's Business Daily It's best if stocks break out to new highs after strong uptrends. History shows that in the market, the strong get stronger. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Mutual Funds on Yahoo! Finance Why Have Stocks Returned 7%? Common Sense on Mutual Funds Why have stocks provided long-term real returns of 7 percent? Answer: Almost entirely because of the rising earnings and dividends of U.S. corporations...  See also: Top-Performing Mutual Funds My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. During 2003, how did the average stock analyst's recommendations perform compared to his or her benchmark? 	+7.4% 	+2.2% 	No Difference 	-3.1% 	-9.3%      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Copyright Policy Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
