20040625
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	25	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Friday, June 25 2004 3:10pm ET - U.S. Markets close in 50 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,417.70	-26.11	(-0.25%) Nasdaq	2,022.79	+7.22	(+0.36%) S&P 500	1,138.78	-1.87	(-0.16%) 10-Yr Bond	4.644%	-0.002	  NYSE Volume	1,057,210,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,180,680,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories U.S. stocks turn mixed on weekend jitters Fri 2:31pm ET - CBS MarketWatch U.S. stocks turned mixed in afternoon trading Friday as blue chips lost ground and the Nasdaq pared gains, with traders attributing the pullback to caution ahead of the weekend. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 3:08pm ET Stocks bounce off their worst levels, but continue to trade around the unchanged mark... The tech sector has backed off its recent highs, and taken away an important source of support for the market...more Special Edition	Provided by Forbes.com shaq.jpg	The Highest Paid Athletes Ten years ago athletes in individual sports dominated Forbes' list of the highest-paid athletes. Today a golfer (Tiger Woods) and a race car driver (Michael Schumacher) occupy the top two spots, but only one boxer (Oscar De La Hoya) and one tennis player (Andre Agassi) made the cut. more special edition... Money Matters Get with the Program, Mutual Funds are Way Too 20th Century by Suze Orman Can I ask you something? You don't use a Betamax to watch movies at home, do you? And your car isn't outfitted with an 8-track tape player, right?... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Intel Recalls PC Chips from Manufacturers Fri 2:48pm ET - Reuters Intel Corp. is recalling an unspecified number of chips it had shipped to computer and motherboard makers after finding a manufacturing flaw that could lead a computer to malfunction, the world's largest chip maker said on Friday. · 	Quarterly Growth Slashed, Inflation Up · 	HSBC, Unlike Fed, Sees Housing Bubble · 	Tech Shares Up; Dow, S&P 500 Sag · 	MCI to Cut About 2,000 Call Center Jobs more business news... Investing Ideas Continue To Remain Patient Until The Market Does This TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry gives you the strategy you need for this market. Salesforce roars out of the gate TheDeal.com The San Francisco online customer relationship management software company prices at $11 a share. Nice Head and Shoulders on the S&P RealMoney by TheStreet.com Bulls should look at this chart and remember what happened in 1998. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Funds on Yahoo! Finance Why Exchange-Traded Funds? ETFZone Exchange-Traded Funds, or ETFs, are index funds that trade just like stocks on major stock exchanges. Want to invest in the market quickly and cheaply? ETFs are the most practical vehicle...More  See also: Top-Performing ETFs My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Multiply your age by your household income. Divide by 10. What does the resulting number mean? 	The maximum you should keep in a tax-deferred plan 	The total wages on which your Social Security benefits will be based 	A rough rule of thumb for what you'll need for retirement 	What your net worth should be today      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
