20040921
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	21	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Tuesday, September 21, 2004, 4:14AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 16 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,204.89	-79.57	(-0.77%) Nasdaq	1,908.07	-2.02	(-0.11%) S&P 500	1,122.20	-6.35	(-0.56%) 10-Yr Bond	4.058%	-0.069 NYSE Volume	1,197,795,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,574,950,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Oil Prices Rise Amid Supply Concerns Mon 10:49PM  ET - Associated Press Oil prices advanced to their highest level in a month Monday, surpassing $46 a barrel, as supply constraints in the United States and Russia piqued the nerves of a market already edgy about the world's limited production capabilities and rising demand. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Mon 3:30 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Stocks Open Higher in Tokyo - Associated Press · 	New York Times Warns on 3Q Earnings - Associated Press · 	Regulators Question Fannie Mae Earnings - Associated Press · 	Judge Anticipates Jurors' Enron Knowledge - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Bush has 'traded a dictator for chaos' FT.com John Kerry on Monday launched his most detailed critique of President George W. Bush's handling of the war in Iraq, calling the invasion a "profound distraction" from the war on terror and warning that the nation faced a conflict "without an end in sight" if it did not change course.	 Provided by FT ·	View Today's Lex ·	More FT.com  Money Matters SuzeImage	Think Twice About Leasing a Car by Suze Orman It drives me nuts to see all the money wasted on car leases. The auto-financing folks have basically perfected a way to let you think you can have your cake and eat it too. more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Slimmed-Down MCI Redoubles Its Efforts In Search For Buyer Investor's Business Daily Troubled long-distance firm MCI is stepping up efforts to find a buyer. Lex: Yukos FT.com Claims and counter-claims in the Russian government's attack on Yukos and its majority owner, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, need to be taken with a Siberian-sized pinch of salt. As in any war, truth is the first casualty. Lex: Colgate FT.com Colgate-Palmolive is accelerating into the storm. With competition getting hotter the personal care group is ratcheting up marketing expenditure to keep its brands on track. But it comes at a heavy cost. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Dollar Idles Ahead of Fed Rate Move Tue 3:39AM ET - Reuters Hitachi and Agilent Technologies Establish New Fibre Channel Performance Benchmark Tue 3:05AM ET - Business Wire Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Adopts Blu-ray Disc ROM for Next Generation PlayStation(R) Tue 3:05AM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...   Auto Insurance on Yahoo! Finance Nine Ways To Save On Your Auto Insurance Policy insure.com The Insurance Information Institute has nine suggestions to help you save on your auto insurance policies. Auto insurance premiums can vary from company to company and from coverage to coverage, so be sure to shop around.  See also: Auto Insurance Information  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.In 2003, how much money did individual citizens donate to the US Treasury to help reduce the public debt? 	$1.3M 	$10.7M 	$33.2M 	$41.9M    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
