20040722
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	22	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Thursday, July 22 2004 3:57am ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 33 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,046.13	-102.94	(-1.01%) Nasdaq	1,874.37	-42.70	(-2.23%) S&P 500	1,093.88	-14.79	(-1.33%) 10-Yr Bond	4.487%	+0.039	  NYSE Volume	1,673,721,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,118,285,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Asian Stocks Retreat on Tech Woes Thu 2:56am ET - Reuters Tech stocks led Asian share markets lower Thursday as fears on the outlook for the sector overshadowed positive corporate news, while the dollar held gains made after bullish comments by Fed chief Alan Greenspan. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Thu 1:33am ET Stocks started the day with respectable gains, but then surrendered all of them - and then some - in a dramatic afternoon sell-off... From their highs (the opening) to their lows (the close), the Dow, Nasdaq, and S&P 500 gave up 180, 56, and 32 points respectively - the Nasdaq coming 9 points...more Special Edition	Provided by Forbes.com carteaser.jpg	Best, Worst and Weirdest Car Names What's the difference between a Thunderbird, an Aztek and a Deliboy? more special edition... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Eurostocks Up as Ericsson Rallies Thu 3:16am ET - Reuters European shares rallied on Wednesday as pleasing results from the technology and drugs sector firmed market sentiment, with Ericsson up 9.6 percent after beating its second-quarter profit estimates. · 	Stocks Tumble as Investors Dump Techs · 	Microsoft Shares Rise Modestly · 	GM Profit Rises, July Sales Seen Stronger · 	High Cholesterol Key to Drugmaker Profits more business news... Investing Ideas Dell Gets No. 3 Rank For Electronics Brand Despite Recent Entry Investor's Business Daily Less than a year after entering the consumer electronics field, personal computer maker Dell now ranks third behind Sony and Panasonic in a survey of the most valued brands in the category. EBay Profit Rises 81%, But Outlook For 2004 Still Lags Analyst Views Investor's Business Daily EBay's second-quarter results generally matched the report earlier this month by another Internet leader, Yahoo: good, not great. Extended Profit Opportunities TradingMarkets.com Kevin Haggerty recaps yesterday's action and sets up the action for Wednesday. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Assuming a Seller's Mortgage MortgageProfessor For years, we heard little about assumptions because market rates were so low. Now that rates are above their lows, and may rise further, we can expect that assumptions will receive increasing attention...More  See also: Mortgage Rates | Find a Home My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following products is NOT sold by a company that is one of the top ten IPO gainers in the last year? 	Biopharmaceuticals 	Chicken Wings 	Fuel Cells 	Fine Jewelry      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes...  World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy - Terms of Service To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
