20040918
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	18	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Friday, September 17, 2004, 11:45PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Weekend Smarter Cars Are Safer Cars BusinessWeek Online Baby boomers, representing 37% of car buyers, see safety as their No. 1 priority when purchasing family cars such as sedans, SUVs, and minivans. A wide range of technologies are heading to market to make cars both smarter and safer. Testing Tiny Digital Cameras The Wall Street Journal Online Just when you think you have the latest and greatest digital camera, an even cooler model comes out. Napa Valley, Reconsidered Travel + Leisure While you were away, this California gold mine has been quietly reinventing itself.  Fall Rental Guide 2004 Forbes.com The beauty of fall rentals is that the same properties cost less than in summer or ski season. View Yahoo! Finance Weekend   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,284.46	+39.97	(+0.39%) Nasdaq	1,910.09	+6.01	(+0.32%) S&P 500	1,128.55	+5.05	(+0.45%) 10-Yr Bond	4.127%	+0.058 NYSE Volume	1,422,636,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,654,935,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Dow Closes Up 40 on Bullish Ford Outlook Fri 7:25PM  ET - Associated Press Investors looked past a spike in oil prices Friday, sending stocks higher on the strength of Ford Motor Co.'s bullish profit outlook. The major indexes finished the week mixed. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Fri 3:30 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Cigarette Makers and Feds Head to Court - Associated Press · 	FBI: Mortgage Fraud Is Rampant in U.S. - Associated Press · 	Circuit City Narrows Second-Quarter Loss - Associated Press · 	Ex-Qwest Executive Agrees to Plead Guilty - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Race You to the Car Dealership! Motley Fool If there were ever a time that could be considered a buyers' market in the domestic automobile industry, this would probably be it. Cash rebates are rising, and 0% financing deals are as common as balloon bouquets in a Chrysler showroom.  Money Matters Protecting Your Money from Scammers and Spammers by Suze Orman My friends, you need to be more paranoid with your money. It's absolutely sickening how many people are losing big bucks by falling for online spamming scams and telemarketing schemes. Identity theft seems to be the fastest growing industry in the U.S... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Three Ways to Beat a Flat Market Forbes Magazine Rich Karlgaard offers three ways to beat a flat market. The Real Story Of This Market TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry gives you his take on the market. Will Nasdaq, King Of The 1990s, Continue To Yield Big Winners? Investor's Business Daily Will the Nasdaq retain the biggest tech players and the best new issues? more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories ADVISORY/Arnold Says: ''Welcome Back'' Fri 10:09PM ET - Business Wire IP3 Networks, Sprint, and Safari Telecom Offer High-Speed Internet Access at Ryder Cup 2004 Fri 9:23PM ET - Business Wire Energy Companies Weigh Damage from Ivan Fri 9:00PM ET - Reuters more Popular Stories...   Auto Loans on Yahoo! Finance How Much of Your Car Should You Finance?  Bankrate.com Next to buying a home or funding your children's education, buying a car is the most expensive purchase you'll make. And car-related expenses, such as gas, maintenance and insurance, can take a big bite out of your wallet. See also: Auto Loan Help | Today's Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.In 2003, what was the estimated value of 'unclaimed assets' (lost & found items) held by states waiting to be claimed by individuals? 	$5bn 	$22bn 	$43bn 	$61bn    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
