20051029
 Wayback Machine	  SEP	OCT	NOV Previous capture	29	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, October 29, 2005, 5:07AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories The Least-Safe Cars 2006 Forbes.com Sometimes a bargain can come at the price of safety. Are you driving one of the six least-safe cars on the market? Affordable Luxury: The Appeal of Coach Handbags BusinessWeek Online For signs of softening consumer sentiment, don't look to Coach. For $200 to $400, customers are snatching up trendy handbags. Bathhouses: Cheap Sleeps in China The Wall Street Journal Online Like Japan's capsule hotels, China's latest trend offers affordable, if spartan, accomodations.  The Get-Rich-Quick Billionaires Forbes.com See which billionaires made their money faster than anyone else.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,402.77	+172.82	(+1.69%) Nasdaq	2,089.88	+26.07	(+1.26%) S&P 500	1,198.41	+19.51	(+1.65%) 10-Yr Bond	4.567%	+0.01 NYSE Volume	2,424,713,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,909,248,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	115.68 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8285 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Columnists Money Matters With Suze Orman Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Dow Gains 172, Nasdaq Up 26 on GDP Growth Fri 7:13PM  ET - AP Stocks rallied sharply Friday, with the Dow gaining 172 points on better-than-expected gross domestic product growth last quarter despite the disruptions caused by hurricanes Katrina and Rita. · 	Economic Growth Strong Despite Storms AP · 	Suit: Insurer Tried to Avoid Paying Claims AP · 	FCC Fails to Agree on Telecom Mergers AP · 	Delta to Discontinue Song by May 2006 AP · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:25 PM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories... Special Edition	  Special EditionStill Need a Halloween Costume? Try a full-sized mask that you can actually print and wear, like this one of Alan Greespan as Yoda. If those aren't scary enough for you, we've also rounded up the season's most terrifying tales, including how much money dead celebrities earn and the spookiest travel destinations. The Automatic Millionaire The Automatic MillionaireBuild a Fortune by Sweating the Small Stuff by David Bach When it comes to building a fortune, it’s not what you make but what you spend that really matters. And, yes, that daily latte counts. View our other columnists here  Featured Article Exxon-Mobil Employees Given Fake Flu Shots AP An Exxon Mobil spokesperson said Thursday that the FBI told the company that what was administered at a health fair at Exxon Mobil Corp.'s Baytown complex was "definitely not the flu vaccine."  Investing Ideas TradingMarkets 7 Stocks You Need To Know For Monday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list. Why I'm Playing Defense TradingMarkets.com Remember that one of the biggest keys to keeping equity market drawdowns low is to know when the odds are NOT in your fa Flextronics Hit Across the Board Motley Fool Investors paid dearly for the company's disappointing quarter. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Stop Labeling Lies Coalition Welcomes Efforts of the Center for Science in the Public Interest Sat 12:28AM ET - Market Wire Smith & Smith LLP Announces Class Action Lawsuit Against Tag-It Pacific, Inc. -- TAG Fri 7:34PM ET - PrimeZone Media Network Alaska Airlines Resumes Daily Nonstop Service to Miami Fri 7:17PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...     Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.75%	5.93% 15-yr Fixed	5.33%	5.61% 5/1 ARM	5.23%	6.33% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Finance Quiz Q. An "official sponsorship" with which of the following sports leagues has the biggest short-term impact on a company's stock price? 	MLB 	NBA 	NFL 	NHL 	PGA  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
