20041204
 Wayback Machine	  NOV	DEC	JAN Previous capture	4	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, December 4, 2004, 3:50AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories Top SUVs 2004 Forbes.com In a market crowded with mediocre SUVs, don't let the outstanding models get lost. From $20,000 to more than $75,000, these are our 12 favorite SUVs by price. Forget Lying Eyes, Brain May Be Window to Soul When You Fib The Wall Street Journal Online When people lie, they use different parts of the brain than when they tell the truth, researchers found. The Investment Club You Can't Get Into The Wall Street Journal Online Wary of Wall Street, wealthy families form peer groups to share advice and manage money.  Despite the Hype, No Elixirs of Youth BusinessWeek Online Lots of products promise to reverse the signs of aging, while providing little or no proof that they work.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,592.21	+7.09	(+0.07%) Nasdaq	2,147.96	+4.39	(+0.20%) S&P 500	1,191.17	+0.84	(+0.07%) 10-Yr Bond	4.27%	-0.127 NYSE Volume	1,562,488,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,435,217,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Tax Guide,  Calculators...  Top Stories Stocks End Higher on Falling Oil Prices Sat 3:35AM  ET - Associated Press Stocks edged higher Friday as another drop in oil prices helped Wall Street withstand the effects of a disappointing jobs creation report. The major indexes achieved a second straight week of gains. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Fri 3:35 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Employers Add 112,000 New Jobs in Nov. - Associated Press · 	Euro Reaches New High Against U.S. Dollar - Associated Press · 	Oil Prices Slip for Fourth Straight Day - Associated Press · 	IBM Focuses on Services, Outsourcing Units - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Shopbots: your own automated shopping assistant on the Web Bankrate.com A shopbot is the perfect marriage of science and convenience. Go to a site, ask for what you want to buy, and the computer searches the Web and presents a selection of retailers, deals and prices...  Money Matters How the New Check 21 Law Affects You by Suze Orman Any civics teacher looking for a glaring real-life example of Congress listening to lobbyists and forgetting about we the people need look no further than the new "Check 21" law that kicked into action in late October... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Three Stocks You Need To Know About For Monday TradingMarkets.com Focus on these on Monday. L-3's Art of the Deal Motley Fool Aggressive mergers and acquisitions have been troublesome for many companies, but not L-3 Communications. Sanguine Sales at Sears Motley Fool Sears showed a relatively nice boost in its November comps. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Investor Notice: Murray, Frank & Sailer LLP Files Shareholder Class Action Against UTStarcom, Inc. -- UTSI Fri 11:59PM ET - PrimeZone Media Network InfoSpace to Present at the Raymond James Global Wireless Data Conference Fri 10:20PM ET - Business Wire Free Color Poster of Extraordinary Outer Space Images Now Available to Download Fri 9:00PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance When Does Refinancing Really Pay?  Mortgage Professor Since it costs money out of my pocket to refinance, how do I know whether or not I will end up saving money? See also: Mortgage Help | Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.For every dollar that a US company spends on outsourcing a service job to India, how much net value is returned to the US? 	$0.41 	$1.13 	$1.65 	$1.92    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
