20040610
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	10	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Thursday, June 10 2004 8:45am ET - U.S. Markets open in 45 minutes. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,368.44	0.00	(0.00%) Nasdaq	1,990.61	0.00	(0.00%) S&P 500	1,131.29	-0.04	(0.00%) 10-Yr Bond	4.818%	+0.006	  NYSE Volume	1,274,148,000 Nasdaq Volume	3,380,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Import Prices Jump More Than Forecast Thu 8:33am ET - Reuters The prices of goods imported into the United States rose much more than expected in May as oil costs posted the largest increase since early 2003, a government report showed on Thursday. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Thu 8:43am ET S&P futures vs fair value: +2.8. Nasdaq futures vs fair value: +5.5. Futures market slips slightly on the heels of the Export/Import Prices and Initial Claims reports, with the S&P futures lower by 0.7 points and the Nasdaq futures lower by 1 point. The futures market continues to point to...more Featured Article	 Sirf Technology Pointed Its Efforts Toward GPS 9 Years Ago Investor's Business Daily The Global Positioning System is hot. Parents can use GPS devices to keep track of kids. And adult children can keep track of parents with Alzheimer's disease... more Investor's Business Daily... Money Matters The Keys to Landing a New Job, Promotion, or Raise by Suze Orman Will someone explain to me why in this tough job environment all the "advice" is centered on how to write the perfect resume, compose a catchy cover letter, or master the latest in interview etiquette? Sure, you need to pay attention to all of that, but my goodness, let's get real... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Jobless Claims Rise Unexpectedly Thu 8:37am ET - Reuters The number of Americans filing initial claims for jobless aid rose unexpectedly last week, government data showed on Thursday, and the rolling average rose to its highest level since late April. · 	Before-the-Bell: Target, FedEx Rise · 	Stocks Seen Higher; P&G Rises on Forecast · 	P&G Sees Profit in Line with Forecasts · 	Bank of England Raises Rates to 4.5 Pct. more business news... Investing Ideas What I Saw Today: Bedtime For Bonzo? TradingMarkets.com Chris Tyler says that it might be time to put the Rally Monkey to rest. Will These Stocks Lead The Market? TradingMarkets.com Tim Truebenbach explains what is needed here. Highly recommended value stocks CBS MarketWatch Not all value stocks are created equal. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Banking on Yahoo! Finance Who Can Demand Your Digits? Bankrate.com While any business or agency can ask for your number, few can actually demand it -- motor vehicle departments, tax departments and welfare departments, for example...More  See also: Savings Rates | Find a Credit Card My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. When today's Wall Street security analysts recommend purchase of a stock, how accurate do you feel those recommendations are, on average? 	Very accurate 	Somewhat accurate 	Neither accurate nor inaccurate 	Somewhat inaccurate 	Very inaccurate      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
