20050314
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	MAR	APR Previous capture	14	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Monday, March 14, 2005, 4:19AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 11 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,774.36	-77.15	(-0.71%) Nasdaq	2,041.60	-18.12	(-0.88%) S&P 500	1,200.08	0.00	(0.00%) 10-Yr Bond	4.535%	0.00 NYSE Volume	1,447,866,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,800,154,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Top Stories Iger to Succeed Eisner As Disney CEO Mon 3:44AM  ET - Associated Press Michael Eisner, the longtime CEO of The Walt Disney Co., will step down a year earlier than expected, handing over the reins to Robert Iger and ending a tumultuous stint atop the entertainment giant. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Crude Futures Remain Steady - Associated Press · 	China Premier Decries Currency Pressure - Associated Press · 	Dollar Dips, Then Rises in Asian Trading - Associated Press · 	Concern Over Inflation Could Intensify - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Beat the Market	Provided by Investor's Business Daily Visit each Monday for "Beat the Market" New!  Beat the Market10 Highest-Rated Home Building Stocks Investor's Business Daily searched this impressive industry for the 10 home builders with the best earnings growth and price performance.   Featured Article Top 10 Car Colors Bankrate.com The hottest car color? Silver is coolest when it comes to American car buyers. "It just looks great on pretty much any body style," says Susan Lampinen, chief designer of color and material design, Ford Motor Co.  Money Matters Suze OrmanBecause Social Security Won't Cut It by Suze Orman I want to remind you that, Social Security is still intended only to provide a safety net to keep people from sliding into poverty in their later years. It is not, and was never meant to be, the central part of a retirement package... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Four Stocks You Need To Know About For Monday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list for the day. Here's Where I'm Seeing Potential Opportunities TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry gives you a stock idea. The Art of Stock Selling Morningstar.com Knowing when to sell is as important as knowing when to buy. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Powerwave Technologies to Acquire Selected Wireless Assets of REMEC, Inc. Mon 3:30AM ET - Business Wire Bourses open cautiously after Wall Street retreat Mon 3:20AM ET - FT.com Marriott International to Take Over Management of U.K. Hotels and Form Joint Venture With Whitbread to Sell 46 Hotels in the U.K. Mon 3:13AM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...      Inside Yahoo! Finance Improve Your Credit Score  Experian Credit scores can vary from month to month-even day to day, sometimes. This is because it is calculated based on the credit data available for you at the credit bureau on the day the score is requested by a lender.  See also: Today's Rates | Credit Center  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. What is the difference between the average price of a home owned and sold by a real estate agent compared to the average price of a home sold by a real estate agent for a client? 	-2.1% 	No difference 	+3.7% 	+6.3% 	+11.9%   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
