20040731
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	31	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Friday, July 30 2004 10:05pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,139.71	+10.47	(+0.10%) Nasdaq	1,887.36	+6.30	(+0.33%) S&P 500	1,101.72	+1.29	(+0.12%) 10-Yr Bond	4.475%	-0.100	  NYSE Volume	1,298,105,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,528,256,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Stocks End Up, But Economic Worries Weigh Fri 4:52pm ET - Reuters U.S. blue chips climbed for the fourth day in a row on Friday, but gains were capped by another surge in oil prices while economic reports cast doubt on the economy's strength. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 10:03pm ET The stock market was stuck in low gear for most of the session, the indices unable to move higher - or lower - in a definitive fashion... The reason for this was (1) the large up move the market enjoyed mid-week (good enough for a positive weekly close for the Dow, Nasdaq, and S&P 500), and (2)...more Special Edition	Provided by Forbes.com convertibles_90x80.jpg	Ten Best Convertibles 2004 From a fuel-efficient roadster that Toyota is about to kill to a fabled German speedster, the best convertibles on the market by price. more special edition... Money Matters Crucial Financial To Dos For Soon-To-Be Parents by Suze Orman Most of us know that few decisions in life carry more responsibility than the decision to become a parent. That's why I find it so odd how many parents-to-be completely drop the ball when it comes to understanding what they need to do to financially protect themselves and their new child... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Oil Prices Hit New Highs on Supply Fears Fri 7:02pm ET - Reuters Oil prices vaulted to new highs on Friday on worries that financial turmoil at Russia's largest oil company could cut into exports from the No. 2 supplier nation, with oil cartel OPEC already struggling vainly to cool the red hot market. · 	Economy Cools Amid Shopping Slowdown · 	Schering-Plough Pleads Guilty to Fraud · 	W. House Forecasts Record Budget Deficit · 	Janus Client to Withdraw $5 Billion more business news... Investing Ideas Deluxe's Delightful Decline Motley Fool Cost-cutting and a hefty dividend make this business in decline an interesting investment. Albertson's: A Tasty Bite BusinessWeek Online Tech Firms Keep Eye On Acacia Investor's Business Daily Could there be a troll under the bridge of the Internet? more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Banking on Yahoo! Finance Who Can Demand Your Digits? Bankrate.com While any business or agency can ask for your number, few can actually demand it -- motor vehicle departments, tax departments and welfare departments, for example...More  See also: Savings Rates | Find a Credit Card My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. What is the estimated value of all the unused vacation days that will be lost by employees in 2004? 	$100B 	$60B 	$20B 	$5B      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes...  World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
