20020527
 Wayback Machine	  MAR	MAY	JUL Previous capture	27	Next capture 2001	2002	2003 8,927 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Monday, May 27 2002 4:03pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed for Memorial Day. Enter symbol(s)   Symbol Lookup   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10104.26	-111.82	(-1.09%) Nasdaq	1661.49	-36.14	(-2.13%) S&P 500	1083.82	-13.26	(-1.21%) 10-Yr Bond	5.138%	-0.010	  NYSE Volume	881,011,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,212,222,000 Quote data provided by Reuters  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes... Education Glossary, Investing 101... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... Bonds Rates, Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards...New Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Analyzer... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, 401k, Basics... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Where's the follow-through? Sat 5:05am ET Stocks had a shoddy follow-up to last week's sizzling performance, with all three of the major averages closing the week out with a loss in the midst of growing terrorism fears. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 5:05pm ET Closing Summary: Not a pretty day in the market. The hope had been we would build on yesterday afternoon's rally, but it was not to be. The good news is that the weakness came with only light volume meaning sentiment has not really gotten worse. Also, traders were hesitant to be holding stocks over...more Finance Spotlight ·	Find a Mortgage Get up to 4 offers.	·	Research Reports Wall Street at great prices. ·	Credit Reports Get yours online for $9.95	·	Real-Time Package Live streaming quotes for $9.95/mo  Business News Eurostocks Mixed; Vodafone Concerns Felt Mon 3:39pm ET European markets turned mixed in late trade Monday as losses in top handset operator Vodafone deepened ahead of its annual results, swamping much of the earnings' optimism generated earlier by improved German business confidence.  Dollar Hugs Unchanged Mark in Thin Trade Mon 3:39pm ET The dollar was little changed on Monday, as holiday-thinned trading afforded the U.S. currency some relief from last week's selling which drove it to multi-month lows against key currencies.  Terror Insurance Cost Pits Lenders, Owners Mon 2:28pm ET With Nasdaq stock prices flashing across its facade, the skyscraper in Times Square is a prime tourist attraction embroiled in a heated debate between real estate lenders and owners over the high cost of terrorism insurance since Sept. 11.  Asian Markets Hushed Ahead of Memorial Day Mon 3:39pm ET Asian share markets fumbled away early gains on Monday before retreating to the sidelines and the currency markets, wary of interventions, were also quiet ahead of a U.S. holiday.  Vivendi Boss Plots Survival Plan Mon 3:39pm ET Vivendi Universal boss Jean-Marie Messier is drawing up a grand plan to turn around his media empire and win back the support of his board as he prepares for a make-or-break meeting on Wednesday.  more business news...    Video from FinanceVision Highlights аиа	A Quiet Memorial Day Will Clear The Way For The Markets Next Week - Charles Payne аиа	Friday's Stock Picks - Charles Payne, CEO аиа	World News Wrap: Explosion Rips Through California Apt. Building; FBI Director Orders Internal Probe - John Doubleday more... Inside FinanceVision аиаThe CEO ChannelTM	аиаTraders' Club аиаEconomic Outlook	аиаStock Pickers Show Featured Segments аиа	A Quiet Memorial Day Will Clear The Way For The Markets Next Week - Charles Payne аиа	Market Update - Closing Numbers - Jean Lee and Mary Snow аиа	Today's Upgrades and Downgrades - Bertha Coombs  My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 20 minutes   Finance Quiz Q. Which of these financial ratios is Warren Buffett most likely to focus on? 	Return on equity (ROE) 	Earnings per share (EPS) 	Price to earnings (PE) 	Price to earnings growth (PEG)     (You'll also see how other users have answered.)  Open a TD Waterhouse Brokerage account today and get 10 FREE Trades!   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · Denmark  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Norway  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Sweden  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2002 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy - Terms of Service To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy Quote technology by TIBCO Software, Inc. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
