20041024
 Wayback Machine	  SEP	OCT	NOV Previous capture	24	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, October 23, 2004, 8:56PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories Top-Earning Fictional Characters Forbes.com The characters on this list may be make-believe, but the dollar signs are real. According to our calculations, the top-ten fictional characters grossed more than $25 billion in 2003. The Hummer Gets Downsized The Wall Street Journal Online Hummer will roll out a smaller, more fuel-efficient version of the sports-utility vehicle in a move to reinvigorate the brand. The Most Expensive U.S. Restaurants Forbes.com When Alain Ducasse opened his eponymous restaurant with dinner starting at $145 per person, it was the price equivalent of Chuck Yeager breaking the sound barrier.  Red-Hot Bahamas: On Location with Salma Hayek Travel + Leisure During film shoots, Salma Hayek spends her downtime absorbing the local culture.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	9,757.81	-107.95	(-1.09%) Nasdaq	1,915.14	-38.48	(-1.97%) S&P 500	1,095.74	-10.75	(-0.97%) 10-Yr Bond	3.984%	-0.013 NYSE Volume	58,645,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,752,047,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Election Uncertainty Weighing on Stocks Sat 6:36PM  ET - Associated Press Add election chaos to the list of worries plaguing Wall Street. With just over a week to go before America heads to the polls, all the major stock indexes are in negative range for the year, and pricey oil may not be entirely to blame. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Japan, U.S. Reach Deal on Beef Imports - Associated Press · 	AP: Saddam Abused Oil-For-Food Program - Associated Press · 	Iraq Oil Pipeline Blasts Squander Revenue - Associated Press · 	High Oil Prices Stir Discontent Globally - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article 6 mortgage myths that can cost you money Bankrate.com Think you can't get a mortgage if you have some dings on your credit? Or that it's always best to pay off the mortgage early? If so, it's time to dispel some myths...  Money Matters How to Start Saving Late in Life by Suze Orman You waited until you were in your 40s or early 50s to get serious about socking away money for your retirement, and now you figure your only shot at a decent nest egg is to gamble on super-aggressive stocks. Slow down, my friends... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Why I Don't Trade Breakouts TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry gives you a good example. Chasing An Extended Stock Can Expose You To A Quick Shakeout Investor's Business Daily Don't get burned chasing overextended stocks. Use a margin account with extreme caution CBS MarketWatch Consumers in increasing numbers are availing themselves of a financing option once associated only with leveraged stock buys and rogue traders -- margin accounts. But access to the accounts can prove dangerous. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Markets Brace for Earnings Week Sat 7:08PM ET - Reuters Say Goodbye to Frustrating Investment Strategies -- Building an Effective Investment Plan is a Breeze with the ''Pragmatic Investor'' from Aptus Communications Sat 4:12PM ET - Business Wire Fed's Bies Upbeat on U.S. Economy Sat 3:51PM ET - Reuters more Popular Stories...    Insurance on Yahoo! Finance Term or Whole Life?  SmartMoney.com For most people, the right type of life insurance can be summed up in a single word: term. But before we explain why, it's important to understand the differences between the most common types of insurance available.  See also: Life Insurance Center | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.U.S. markets have had the best returns during the administrations of Presidents from which political party? 	Republican 	Democrat    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
