20041115
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	15	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Monday, November 15, 2004, 3:47AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 5 hours and 43 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,539.01	+69.17	(+0.66%) Nasdaq	2,085.34	+24.07	(+1.17%) S&P 500	1,184.17	0.00	(0.00%) 10-Yr Bond	4.2%	-0.054 NYSE Volume	1,532,046,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,018,805,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Administration Calm Despite Dollar's Woes Sun 10:11PM  ET - Associated Press America's trade deficit is soaring and the once high-flying dollar has sunk to record lows against Europe's common currency. But the Bush administration has reacted with remarkable calm to developments that raise worries about a possible dollar crisis. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Crude Futures Sink Below $47 Per Barrel - Associated Press · 	Radio Station Owner Said to Admit Theft - Associated Press · 	Secondhand Smoke Key Issue in Trial - Associated Press · 	Trial Shows How Spammers Operate - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Special Edition	Provided by Investor's Business Daily  yahoo47_9080.jpg10 Stocks Rising on Unusual Volume When institutions begin accumulating shares of a company, it is one of the most important signs that the stock has sunny days ahead. more Special Editions... Special Edition	Provided by Investor's Business Daily  yahoo47_9080.jpgWhere's the Big Money Flowing Now? When institutions begin accumulating shares of a company, it is one of the most important signs that the stock has sunny days ahead. more Special Editions...  Featured Article Trial Shows How Spammers Operate Associated Press Trial of prolific spammer shows how he sent 10 million e-mails a day, made $750,000 a month... Money Matters logo.gifSplit Decisions: How to Settle the Financial Issues When You Divorce by Suze Orman No matter what is going on in the economy or the world, you can pretty much count on the fact that 50 percent of the weddings today end in divorce. Given those not-so-great marriage odds, I thought it would be smart to lay down the financial dos and don'ts of divorce... more Money Matters Topics... Sponsored by:  Investing Ideas The Sound of Gaining 100% in a Day Motley Fool Dynamic Materials, with the stock symbol BOOM, was up 100% in early Nasdaq trading. Three Promising Stocks For Taxing Times BusinessWeek Online Coolcat's in a hot spot CBS MarketWatch Has the Coolcat hit the wall? Maybe. But remember that cats have nine lives. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Tower Semiconductor Announces Cost Reduction Plan Mon 3:07AM ET - Business Wire OMRON and Delmia Corp. Form Strategic Partnership for Industrial Automation Market Mon 3:00AM ET - Business Wire ADVISORY/Cadence Chief Technology Officer Ted Vucurevich Presents at 2004 IEE EDA Tools Forum Mon 3:00AM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance When Does Refinancing Really Pay?  Mortgage Professor Since it costs money out of my pocket to refinance, how do I know whether or not I will end up saving money? See also: Mortgage Help | Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.Which group makes up a larger segment of the home-buying market? 	Single women 	Single men    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
