20060219
 Wayback Machine	  JAN	FEB	MAR Previous capture	19	Next capture 2005	2006	2007 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  Sunday, February 19, 2006, 3:56AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. HomeInvestingNews & CommentaryRetirement & PlanningBanking & CreditLoansTaxesMy Portfolios   Get QuotesSymbol LookupFinance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories Who Knows the Most About Money? Forbes.com Whether they're multibillionaire economists or television stars, the 10 members of this list understand the nature of money – both how to get it and how to spend it. Can MTV Stay Cool? BusinessWeek Online Twenty-five years ago, the convergence of music and video changed TV and music forever. Can MTV stay relevant in the world it helped create? Ten Technologies That Will Change the Way We Live Forbes.com Here's a look at 10 potentially world-changing technologies that you'll likely be reckoning with in your lifetime.  The Most High-Tech Cars Forbes.com One of these cars is so sophisticated, it will even drive itself. Get ready to geek out over today's coolest automotive tech.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	11,115.32	-5.36	(-0.05%) Nasdaq	2,282.36	-12.27	(-0.53%) S&P 500	1,287.24	-2.14	(-0.17%) 10-Yr Bond	4.541%	-0.05 NYSE Volume	2,128,837,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,960,209,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	118.09 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8379 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Columnists Money Matters With Suze Orman Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Life... Retirement & Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Firm Sues to Block Foreign Port Takeover  AP -- A company at the Port of Miami has sued to block the takeover of shipping operations there by a state-owned business in the United Arab Emirates. It is the first American courtroom effort to capsize a $6.8 billion sale already embroiled in a national debate over security risks at six major U.S. ports affected by the deal. · 	9 Foreign Oil Workers Seized in Nigeria AP · 	Falling Fuel Prices Benefit Retailers AP · 	McDonald's Sued Over Ingredients of Fries AP · 	Free Clinics Pop Up to Deal With Uninsured AP · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories... Money and Happiness Money and HappinessAmericans' Debt: Worse Than You Think? by Laura Rowley The savings rate may be lower than the negative 0.5 percent reported recently. And some indicators of debt have hit a high. With interest rates rising and income growth slipping, Americans' leveraged life is likely to worsen. View our other columnists here  Featured Article In Real Estate, Location and Price Are Important Bankrate.com If you've signed a listing contract to sell your home with a big local real estate office and they're simply going through the motions, what are your options?  Investing Ideas TradingMarkets 7 Stocks You Need To Know For Tuesday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list. Stock's Closing Price Level Can Provide Hints About Investor Demand Investor's Business Daily Just like the shape of chart patterns tells a lot about a stock, small details in those patterns also offer valuable signals. Semi-Active ETF: PowerShares & Zacks Team Up ETFZone.com A semi-active ETF? Why not? PowerShares and Zacks team up to launch an intriguing new fund. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Record $365 Million Powerball Jackpot Won in Nebraska Sun 2:48AM ET - PR Newswire ''Aces High'' Player Gets a Big Surprise Sat 7:30PM ET - Business Wire Statement by the White House Press Secretary Sat 6:27PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...   Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.86%	6.05% 15-yr Fixed	5.48%	5.8% 5/1 ARM	5.5%	6.72% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Today's Poll Q. How will you file this year’s income tax return? 	By myself 	With a CPA and/or tax practitioner 	Using online resources or tax preparation software 	None of the above  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
