20030204
 Wayback Machine	  DEC	FEB	MAR Previous capture	4	Next capture 2002	2003	2004 8,927 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Monday, February 3 2003 7:42pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s)   Symbol Lookup   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	8,109.82	+56.01	(+0.70%) Nasdaq	1,323.79	+2.88	(+0.22%) S&P 500	860.32	+4.62	(+0.54%) 10-Yr Bond	3.992%	+0.017	  NYSE Volume	1,211,579,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,264,343,000 Quote data provided by Reuters  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Biotech, Energy, Media, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing 101... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... Bonds Rates, Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Analyzer... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Upbeat Manufacturing Data Boosts Stocks Mon 4:43pm ET - Reuters Stocks climbed on Monday after surprisingly strong data on the U.S. manufacturing sector lifted hopes economic growth will gather steam in 2003, but the threat of war kept investors' enthusiasm in check. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Mon 4:35pm ET In a quiet trading day, the major indices finished the session modestly higher after holding to relatively tight ranges for the bulk of the session... The key catalysts for the positive day for the stock market were a pair of encouraging reports on the housing market and manufacturing sector...more Finance Spotlight ·	Find a Mortgage Get up to 4 offers.	·	Research Reports Wall Street at great prices. ·	Credit Reports Get yours online for $9.95	·	Real-Time Package Live streaming quotes for $9.95/mo  Business News Shares of Space Shuttle Contractors Fall Mon 5:55pm ET - Reuters Shares of space shuttle contractors weakened on Monday as Wall Street grappled with the Columbia disaster, which has raised questions about the future of the U.S. space program.  WorldCom to Cut 5,000 Jobs, Trim Expenses Mon 3:30pm ET - Reuters WorldCom Inc., the bankrupt telephone company, said on Monday it would cut 5,000 jobs, or more than 8 percent of its work force, and trim annual costs by $2.5 billion in an effort to emerge from bankruptcy.  Industry Stays Upbeat, Auto Sales Brake Mon 7:12pm ET - Reuters Upbeat reports on the U.S. manufacturing and building sectors on Monday suggest the tempo of economic growth is likely improving from last quarter's funereal pace.  US Airways Posts Sector's 2nd-Biggest Loss Mon 6:38pm ET - Reuters US Airways Group Inc. on Monday reported the U.S. airline industry's second-biggest fourth-quarter net loss, and it said a fare war launched by competitors could clip its future revenue.  Snow Sworn in as New Treasury Secretary Mon 7:12pm ET - Reuters Railroad executive John Snow was sworn in on Monday as treasury secretary, taking over the senior Cabinet post left vacant by the resignation under fire of Paul O'Neill in December.  more business news...     My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. With respect to gold, from where does the term "Karat" derive? 	From the name of a fruit tree's seeds 	From the name of an ancient measuring instrument 	It's just another spelling for "carat" 	From the name of the founder of gold measurement     (You'll also see how other users have answered.)  Open a TD Waterhouse Brokerage account today and get 25 FREE TRADES! World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · Denmark  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Norway  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Sweden  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2003 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy - Terms of Service To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy Quote technology by TIBCO Software, Inc. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
