20041016
 Wayback Machine	  SEP	OCT	NOV Previous capture	16	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Friday, October 15, 2004, 11:48PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories Up and Down with SpaceShipOne BusinessWeek Online Designed and built in three years at a cost of under $25 million, SpaceShipOne has just given space tourism a rocket-powered boost, and investors and sponsors are lining up. Tax Bill Targets Executive Pay Perk The Wall Street Journal Online Congress has reformed the rules governing deferred-compensation plans which shield income from taxation until retirement. Matador for a Day Travel + Leisure Dan Halpern steps into the ring for lessons in the dangerous art of bullfighting.  Driving the New Porsche 911 Forbes.com What it's like behind the wheel of the two newest 911s: the Carrera and the hot rod Carrera S.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	9,933.38	+38.93	(+0.39%) Nasdaq	1,911.50	+8.48	(+0.45%) S&P 500	1,108.20	+4.91	(+0.45%) 10-Yr Bond	4.053%	+0.038 NYSE Volume	1,647,498,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,652,681,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Greenspan Not Worried About Energy Prices Fri 10:29PM  ET - Associated Press This year's oil price surge will not be a replay of the oil shocks of the 1970s and 1980s that sent the United States into a series of recessions, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Friday. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:25 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Stocks Rise on Strong Retail Sales Report - Associated Press · 	Oil Prices Near Record $55-A-Barrel Level - Associated Press · 	US Airways May Slash Pay by 21 Percent - Associated Press · 	United to Seek More Cuts From Labor - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Shorter List of New Highs Spells Trouble RealMoney by TheStreet.com There really were some bullish aspects to Thursday's decline. For example, as I posted my charts, I kept making notes on how many stocks did not go down...  Money Matters Top Credit Card Pitfalls to Avoid by Suze Orman It sure isn't easy making a buck these days. The stock market isn't delivering returns to brag about. And in today's tight job market I don't see too many bosses who look like they're about to back up the armored truck and start handing out raises. But I have a surefire way for many of you to make a guaranteed 18 percent... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Stocks for a Weak Market Forbes Magazine Fastenal Quick to Please Investors Motley Fool The earnings information the company offers ranges as wide as its product line. Genuine Parts Adds up to Success Motley Fool The automotive parts distributor produces a higher profit and has an attractive yield. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Sears Adds Top Appliance Brands to Local Hardware Store Fri 9:15PM ET - PR Newswire Free Color Poster of Breathtaking Outer Space Images Now Available to Download Fri 9:00PM ET - Business Wire Insurance Probe Drives Down Stocks Fri 8:48PM ET - Reuters more Popular Stories...   Auto Insurance on Yahoo! Finance Nine Ways To Save On Your Auto Insurance Policy insure.com The Insurance Information Institute has nine suggestions to help you save on your auto insurance policies. Auto insurance premiums can vary from company to company and from coverage to coverage, so be sure to shop around.  See also: Auto Insurance Information  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.What percentage of the U.S. population does not have a bank account? 	2.3% 	5.1% 	9.7% 	14.9%    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
