20050528
 Wayback Machine	  APR	MAY	JUN Previous capture	28	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, May 28, 2005, 4:41AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories Summer Travel Guide 2005 Forbes.com To help you choose the perfect summer travel destination, here is a guide to 60 great international hotels -- five in each of 12 popular summer travel regions around the world. Number of Millionaires Hits All-Time High The Wall Street Journal Online The number of millionaires in the U.S. increased to a record last year, boosted by gains in stocks and global financial markets. The Next Wave of Sex Drugs The Wall Street Journal Online The drug industry has made billions by taking the stigma out of the once-taboo subject of erectile dysfunction. Now, it is targeting an equally delicate problem.  Locating Affordable Luxury Homes BusinessWeek Online Here's a look at the areas where luxury homes are a stretch and where they're within comfortable reach.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,542.55	+4.95	(+0.05%) Nasdaq	2,075.73	+4.49	(+0.22%) S&P 500	1,198.78	+1.16	(+0.10%) 10-Yr Bond	4.073%	-0.01 NYSE Volume	1,381,654,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,266,176,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Personal Income Up; Consumer Sentiment Off Sat 12:41AM  ET - AP Personal incomes rose in April at the fastest pace in five months, helped by a big jump in employment, while consumer spending slowed a bit, the government reported Friday. · 	Oil Prices Approach $52 Per Barrel AP · 	Feds Investigate Blindness-ED Drug Link AP · 	EU Takes Textiles Dispute With China to WTO AP · 	French Leaders Warn Voters on EU Treaty AP · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Real Estate Is the New Dot-Com Morningstar.com Residential real estate is fast becoming the Internet stock craze of this decade. And like the previous mania, house buyers in some parts of the country have thrown logical, fundamental valuation out the window.  Money Matters Building a Nest Egg on One Salary by Suze Orman Whether you are a single parent, or a couple with one of you at home full-time, figuring out how to pay for the everyday expenses of being a family while also saving for retirement is a tough challenge, but it is by no means impossible. Here's how ... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Thinking Of Selling Everything Before The Close? Don't Pull The Trigger Yet! TradingMarkets.com You'll appreciate--and enjoy--this new research from Larry Connors. Four Stocks You Need To Know About For Friday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list... Highlights of rising and falling U.S. stocks MarketWatch A roundup of advancers and decliners in the day's trading. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Glancy Binkow & Goldberg LLP, Representing Investors Who Purchased Gravity Co., Ltd., Announces Class Action Lawsuit and Seeks to Recover Losses -- GRVY Fri 10:24PM ET - PrimeZone Media Network Weekly Wrap: Rally Continues Fri 9:47PM ET - ETFZone.com Nine Inch Nails Performance at 2005 MTV Movie Awards Canceled Due to Differences Over Use of Bush Image Fri 8:20PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...     Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Tips for First-Time Home Buyers SmartMoney.com The biggest challenge for most first-time home buyers is saving up enough money for a down payment. But thanks to a growing assortment of financing options, it's increasingly possible to find mortgages...  See also: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Rates  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which global region had the highest CEO turnover rate in 2004? 	North America 	Europe 	Asia-Pacific   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
