20040809
 Wayback Machine	  JUL	AUG	SEP Previous capture	9	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Sunday, August 8 2004 11:46pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	9,815.33	-147.70	(-1.48%) Nasdaq	1,776.89	-44.74	(-2.46%) S&P 500	1,063.97	-16.73	(-1.55%) 10-Yr Bond	4.217%	-0.183	  NYSE Volume	1,519,402,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,712,541,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Dollar Eases After U.S. Jobs Data Sun 11:24pm ET - Reuters The dollar eased on Monday, extending heavy losses made after a far-weaker-than-expected U.S. employment report cast doubt over the health of the economy and the pace at which the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Sat 10:03am ET Weekly Recap - This week's market was essentially about two things: oil and jobs.  When the latter started climbing higher (setting 4 all-time records in the process), investors looked to the July employment report for signs the economy was not buckling under the weight of steep gas...more Featured Article	 "This Is Not The Intel We All Know" BusinessWeek Online The giant has fallen behind in chips for multimedia -- and investors aren't happy... more BusinessWeek... Money Matters Crucial Financial To Dos For Soon-To-Be Parents by Suze Orman Most of us know that few decisions in life carry more responsibility than the decision to become a parent. That's why I find it so odd how many parents-to-be completely drop the ball when it comes to understanding what they need to do to financially protect themselves and their new child... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Rates and Oil to Write Script for Stocks Sun 11:42pm ET - Reuters Wall Street's focus will be on the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision this week after weak jobs data raised questions about the pace of future hikes, while concerns about oil prices near $45 a barrel are likely to keep U.S. stocks under pressure. · 	Nikkei Dips on Poor U.S. Data · 	Dillard's to Sell Bank Assets to GE Unit · 	'Soft Patch' Complicates Fed Policy Plans · 	Value Stocks Beat Out Growth Across Board more business news... Investing Ideas Linktone's Stock: Game Over Motley Fool Linktone gets mobile -- downwardly mobile, that is. Ultimate Climate for Stock-Picking Arises RealMoney by TheStreet.com Jim Cramer says now that we know what will work and what won't, the choices are clear. Day Trading: It's Not Always A Fool's Game BusinessWeek Online more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Assuming a Seller's Mortgage MortgageProfessor For years, we heard little about assumptions because market rates were so low. Now that rates are above their lows, and may rise further, we can expect that assumptions will receive increasing attention...More  See also: Mortgage Rates | Find a Home My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following remodeling projects is most likely to provide the best return when a homeowner decides to sell? 	Additional Bathroom 	Family Room Addition 	Deck Addition 	Kitchen Remodeling      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes...  World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy - Terms of Service To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
