20041030
 Wayback Machine	  SEP	OCT	NOV Previous capture	30	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Friday, October 29, 2004, 10:23PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories Top-Earning Dead Celebrities Forbes.com The earning power of most famous people slows considerably or stops altogether when they die. But for a select few, the paychecks keep coming, and some draw even bigger paydays than when they were alive. The Coolest U.S Ski Resorts Forbes.com It's October, the temperatures are dropping and in the early morning the ground is covered with frost. It can mean only one thing: skiing season. Three Challengers Take on the iPod Mini The Wall Street Journal Online Multiple competitors, having failed to dent sales of the main iPod, are now taking aim at the Mini.  True Hawaii Travel + Leisure Searching for the Hawaii that his parents knew, Guy Trebay finds his ideal on the Big Island.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,027.47	+22.93	(+0.23%) Nasdaq	1,974.99	-0.75	(-0.04%) S&P 500	1,130.20	+2.76	(+0.24%) 10-Yr Bond	4.029%	-0.051 NYSE Volume	1,449,779,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,661,806,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Economy Grows at 3.7 Percent Annual Rate Fri 5:59PM  ET - Associated Press The economy grew at an annual rate of 3.7 percent in the summer as a big rebound in auto sales offset weakness from an exploding trade deficit, soaring oil prices and the Florida hurricanes, the government reported Friday. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	ChevronTexaco's Q3 Profit Rises 62 Percent - Associated Press · 	Stocks Are Mixed on Lackluster GDP Report - Associated Press · 	Crude Oil Prices Rise Ahead of Weekend - Associated Press · 	Bristol-Myers Profit Drops on Struggles - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Trick or Treat boo!  boo! Still Need a Halloween Costume? Forbes.com We dress the billionaires for Halloween--so you can dress as them. boo!Blockbuster Horror Show Motley Fool Shivers will race down your spine if you peek into a crystal ball and look into the future of Blockbuster. With DVD rentals by mail getting cheaper and more convenient, how will Blockbuster survive?  Investing Ideas If I Am Right About This Market, This Is Where You Should Be TradingMarkets.com Tim Truebenbach lays it out for you. Wait For This To Happen Before Getting Aggressive TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry gives you the signal. Cross-Currents Make for Difficult Forging for Traders RealMoney by TheStreet.com Uncertain times are uneasy times for the market, and James De Porre says that's what we have now. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories DISH Network Offers Special Broadcast of Controversial Documentary 'Fahrenheit 9/11' Fri 9:22PM ET - Business Wire DISH Network Offers Special Broadcast of Controversial Documentary 'Stolen Honor' Fri 9:19PM ET - Business Wire Silicon Image Appoints Seasoned Technology Counsel as Chief Legal Officer Fri 8:45PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance When Does Refinancing Really Pay?  Mortgage Professor Since it costs money out of my pocket to refinance, how do I know whether or not I will end up saving money? See also: Mortgage Help | Today's Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.All the gold ever mined is equal in size to which of the following? 	A tennis court to a depth of 19 meters 	A Boeing 747 	A football field to a depth of 19 meters 	The Empire State building    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
