20041125
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	25	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Thursday, November 25, 2004, 4:13AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed for Thanksgiving Day. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,520.31	+27.71	(+0.26%) Nasdaq	2,102.54	+18.26	(+0.88%) S&P 500	1,181.76	+4.82	(+0.41%) 10-Yr Bond	4.195%	+0.011 NYSE Volume	1,150,593,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,646,869,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Stores Court Shoppers on Thanksgiving Day Thu 3:21AM  ET - Associated Press For those who are bored sitting around eating turkey and stuffing and watching football all day, Thanksgiving Day is becoming more of an option to start holiday gift buying. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Wed 4:25 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Stocks End Higher in Pre-Holiday Trading - Associated Press · 	Dollar Drops to New Low Against the Euro - Associated Press · 	Durable-Goods Orders Decline in October - Associated Press · 	Retailers Hope to Lure Shoppers Into Malls - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Special Edition	Provided by Forbes.com  Automtive Turkeys 2004Automotive Turkeys 2004 Thanksgiving is upon us, but the turkeys you're about to see here are not savory, and the reflections on this year's auto industry you're about to read are not of the fond variety. more Special Editions...  Featured Article Toyota Under Porsche Motley Fool When it comes to automobiles, the name Porsche carries some pretty clear connotations. Distinctive styling, world-class German engineering, and sticker shock might be among the most common things that consumers associate with the brand...  Happy Thanksgiving leaves.gif happy thanksgivingQuiz: Are You A Financial Turkey? By Suze Orman A Thanksgiving brain workout to burn off some of that stuffing...  Investing Ideas Three Stocks That Look Poised To Continue Higher TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry spells it out for you. The Quickest Path To Successful Investing Is With Charts Investor's Business Daily As an investor, what would you trust more: the opinion of a single pundit, or the actual activity of thousands or even millions of investors? TradingMarkets Nightly Daytraders Report TradingMarkets.com T.Kamada shows you three stocks for Friday. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Weak Dollar Caps Asian Shares Thu 2:57AM ET - Reuters SearchGuy.com Signs Exclusive Partnership with Interchange Corporation Thu 2:21AM ET - Business Wire World of Warcraft Selling Out in Stores Nationwide Thu 1:29AM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...   Taxes on Yahoo! Finance Home-sale tax break is a boon for most owners Bankrate.com Too many people worry that they will have to pay Uncle Sam when they sell their homes. But since the rules changed in 1997, it has been one of the best tax breaks around...  See also: Tax Center | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.How much does a pack of cigarettes cost a 24 year old smoker if you include future costs (reduced life expectancy, second hand smoke, etc.)? 	$30 	$40 	$50 	$60    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
