20050330
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	MAR	MAY Previous capture	30	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Tuesday, March 29, 2005, 11:13PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,405.70	-79.95	(-0.76%) Nasdaq	1,973.88	-18.64	(-0.94%) S&P 500	1,165.36	-8.92	(-0.76%) 10-Yr Bond	4.591%	-0.03 NYSE Volume	2,225,665,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,842,223,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories MCI Accepts Verizon's $7.64B Takeover Bid Tue 9:42PM  ET - Associated Press Verizon has won the bidding for MCI Inc. a second time, agreeing to pay $1 billion more for the long-distance telephone company, and yet still considerably less than a rival bid from Qwest. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Tue 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	HP Picks NCR Chief Hurd to Replace Fiorina - Associated Press · 	Morgan Stanley Makes Management Changes - Associated Press · 	Report: Top GM Exec in China Resigns - Associated Press · 	Late-Session Selloff Sends Stocks Sliding - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Your Money Visit each Tuesday for "Your Money" New!  Most Expensive State to Insure a HomeLesson of Schiavo Case: Get a Living Will Living Wills can protect you – and your family – in the event of an emergency. Find out how easy it is to create one with these helpful articles from the Wall Street Journal Online, USA Today, Suze Orman and Nolo.com.  Featured Article Are 529 Plans All They're Cracked Up to Be? Morningstar.com I firmly believe that investing well requires a healthy dose of skepticism. Judging from the many comments and questions I received in response to my recent column extolling the benefits of 529 college-savings plans, it certainly seems that a great many Morningstar.com readers have the makings of successful investors!  Money Matters Suze OrmanFinancial Planners: How To Pick A Good One—And Why The Best One Might Just Be You by Suze Orman We’ve become a nation addicted to contract labor. What past generations did for themselves, we now “outsource” to someone else. But we need to talk about one area of your personal life where I think it’s imperative for you to do as much of the work as possible: your finances. more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Look How 'BULLISH' These Charts Are TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry displays his sense of humor... Lex: ISS FT.com Mopping floors is not a glamorous business. But it needs little investment, generates plenty of cash and, in a fragmented industry, provides opportunities for consolidation. The private equity arms of Goldman Sachs and Sweden's Wallenberg family believe that public investors undervalue these characteristics. Finding A Trading Method That Works For You, Part 1 TradingMarkets.com Veteran trader Steve Primo begins the series... more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories MCI Accepts Verizon's $7.6 Billion Offer Tue 10:06PM ET - Reuters Qwest Board to Weigh New MCI Bid - Source Tue 9:47PM ET - Reuters Fry's Reaches out to Uninsured Customers with the Introduction of Rx Advantage Tue 8:36PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...     Yahoo! Finance Tax Center Have you done your taxes? Find help in our Tax Center!  Tips, tools, and guides to make filing fast and easy	16days90x80.jpg  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. How have the companies with the highest corporate governance ratings performed against the S&P Index over the last 5 years? 	-5.3% 	+3.1% 	+7.4% 	+15.9%   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
