20050827
 Wayback Machine	  JUL	AUG	SEP Previous capture	27	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, August 27, 2005, 10:05AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories The Most Commonly Stolen Vehicles ForbesAutos.com Just as some cars and trucks prove popular with buyers, others are irresistible to thieves. See if your car is one that's going to attract the kind of attention you may not want. The Bulls of Baghdad Trader Monthly In a nation plagued by bombings, kidnappings and political strife, a trading floor struggles to survive. Come spend a day at the Iraq Stock Exchange. Nanotechnology Hits the Tennis Court The Wall Street Journal Online Tennis racket makers are now featuring nanotechnology in their new rackets -- they claim it adds power and precision to players' strokes.  The Most Expensive Golf Gear Forbes.com Does the equipment make the golfer, or is it the other way around? Here's what to buy if you want to find out for yourself.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,397.29	-53.34	(-0.51%) Nasdaq	2,120.77	-13.60	(-0.64%) S&P 500	1,205.10	-7.27	(-0.60%) 10-Yr Bond	4.189%	+0.03 NYSE Volume	1,541,781,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,298,658,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	110.20 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8138 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters With Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories FDA Delays Morning-After Pill Decision Sat 5:39AM  ET - AP Most women hoping to buy emergency contraception without a prescription will have to wait awhile longer. The Food and Drug Administration on Friday again postponed its long-awaited decision on whether to let the morning-after pill sell over the counter. · 	Crisis Management Is Greenspan's Specialty AP · 	Oil Prices Fall Despite Hurricane Worries AP · 	UAW Leaders: Gas Prices a Growing Concern AP · 	Breakaway Union Leaders Outline Strategy AP · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories... Special Edition	Visa Signature Series  10 Stocks Rising on Unusual VolumeThe 100 Most Powerful Women Forbes.com These 100 women transcend gender and, through their undeniable leadership, make big things happen all around the world. Visa Signature Series presented by  Featured Article Scooters: The Perfect Second Car? BusinessWeek Online High gas prices and traffic: They're the banes of a driver's existence. With neither about to improve anytime soon, there may be a small solution to these big problems. Scooters are an increasingly popular way to zip to errands, make parking a snap, and cut down on fuel costs.  Investing Ideas Four Stocks Mispriced by the Market Morningstar.com Test your contrarian picks to see if they're on the money. Why Is The Dow Lagging? Here's Why... TradingMarkets.com Fox Business News Contributor Gary Kaltbaum gives you his market analysis. Who will benefit when oil starts to fall? MarketWatch BOULDER, Colo. -- The oil market is starting to respond to every piece of news the market can muster -- a tell tale sign of deep speculation within the sector. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Wal-Mart sees same-store sales up 3.3 pct Sat 9:05AM ET - Reuters William K. Haines LLC a Premier Cash Flow Specialist Sat 9:00AM ET - Business Wire Patriot Motorcycle Corporation Acquires Steed Musclebike Assets Sat 9:00AM ET - PrimeZone Media Network more Popular Stories...     Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.31%	5.46% 15-yr Fixed	4.91%	5.18% 5/1 ARM	4.85%	6% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Finance Quiz Q. How does the return on assets for a family-controlled public company compare to that of a regular public company? 	-5.1% 	-1.4% 	No Difference 	+1.4% 	+5.1%  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
