20060225
 Wayback Machine	  JAN	FEB	MAR Previous capture	25	Next capture 2005	2006	2007 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  Saturday, February 25, 2006, 2:44AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. HomeInvestingNews & CommentaryRetirement & PlanningBanking & CreditLoansTaxesMy Portfolios   Get QuotesSymbol LookupFinance Search  Weekend Business, Meet Pleasure · Read all Weekend stories Million Dollar Homes CNNMoney.com Americans are buying homes that are bigger and contain more luxury features than ever. Here’s what a million dollars will buy in locations across America. New Ways to Watch TV on Your PC The Wall Street Journal Online Here's a guide to some of the best video sites offering movies, TV shows and more. Thirty Italian Wines Under $30 Forbes.com The good news is that the quality of Italian wine is high today -- the bad news is so are prices.  Celebrity Chefs’ Healthiest Meals Forbes.com These recipes by the world's greatest chefs prove that flavor does not have to equal fat.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	11,061.85	-7.37	(-0.07%) Nasdaq	2,287.04	+7.72	(+0.34%) S&P 500	1,289.43	+1.64	(+0.13%) 10-Yr Bond	4.567%	0.00 NYSE Volume	1,995,726,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,591,483,000 Most Actives | Indices: US - World Brokers:  Currency Rates $1 is worth...	 USD to ¥en	116.78 ¥ USD to Euro	0.8415 € See more rates: Currency Converter  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  Weekend... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Columnists Money Matters With Suze Orman Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Life... Retirement & Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Other Yahoo! Resources HotJobs Post a Resume, Job Search... Real Estate Homes for Sale, Rentals... Small Business Getting Started, Finance, Legal...  Top Stories Analysts: Feb. Auto Sales Should Be Up  AP -- Despite a blizzard, February auto sales should be higher than last year thanks to heavy advertising, a blitz of new products and the continued strength of Asian automakers, industry analysts said Friday. · 	Dow Ends Down 7, Nasdaq Finishes Up 8 AP · 	Bernanke: Low Inflation Fosters Jobs AP · 	Oil Futures Jump $2 on Thwarted Attack AP · 	Northwest, Unions Told to Keep Negotiating AP · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET Briefing.com  	 more Top Stories... Money and Happiness Money and HappinessHow to Spend Less -- and Get More Joy from It by Laura Rowley These practical tips can help you maximize your savings. Even better, they can show you whether you're spending on things that aren't personally meaningful and help you shift your money to areas that will make you happier. View our other columnists here  Featured Article Walkable Communities a Pedestrian Dream Bankrate.com For those who long for the connectivity of small-town life, yet don't want to give up the conveniences of urban living, neotraditional communities provide an alternative.  Investing Ideas TradingMarkets 7 Stocks You Need To Know For Monday TradingMarkets.com Here's your hit list. The Bizarro Portfolio BusinessWeek Online This week, S&P scrapes the barrel to find the stocks that perform the worst according to two proprietary measures. Among the selections: Cosi and Flowserve A Fleet of Foot Stocks Motley Fool Who measures up in the shrinking world of athletic footwear? more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories SnoCountry Reports Latest Skiing Conditions Information Fri 10:53PM ET - PR Newswire Stock Picking Software from Investing Systems ''Crawls the Market'' Looking for Technical Set-Ups Fri 10:34PM ET - Business Wire Berkley(R) Hooks Biggest Bass in Bassmaster Classic History Fri 10:11PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...   Mortgage Rates Today's National Averages: Loan Type	Rate	APR 30-yr Fixed	5.8%	5.99% 15-yr Fixed	5.46%	5.76% 5/1 ARM	5.52%	6.75% See rates for your area: Mortgage - Home Equity More: Mortgage Center | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table. Today's Poll Q. Shares of Intel are down to about $20. Is the stock a buy? 	Yes. This blue chip company will come back. 	Maybe. It's too hard to tell at this point. 	No. AMD will keep eating its lunch.  (You'll also see how other users have answered.)     World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2005 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Hemscott Americas. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
