20041031
 Wayback Machine	  SEP	OCT	NOV Previous capture	31	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Sunday, October 31, 2004, 3:42AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories Top-Earning Dead Celebrities Forbes.com The earning power of most famous people slows considerably or stops altogether when they die. But for a select few, the paychecks keep coming, and some draw even bigger paydays than when they were alive. The Coolest U.S Ski Resorts Forbes.com It's October, the temperatures are dropping and in the early morning the ground is covered with frost. It can mean only one thing: skiing season. Three Challengers Take on the iPod Mini The Wall Street Journal Online Multiple competitors, having failed to dent sales of the main iPod, are now taking aim at the Mini.  True Hawaii Travel + Leisure Searching for the Hawaii that his parents knew, Guy Trebay finds his ideal on the Big Island.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,027.47	+22.93	(+0.23%) Nasdaq	1,974.99	-0.75	(-0.04%) S&P 500	1,130.20	+2.76	(+0.24%) 10-Yr Bond	4.029%	-0.051 NYSE Volume	1,449,779,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,661,806,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Top Officer Objected to Halliburton Deal Sat 9:11PM  ET - Associated Press The Army extended a Halliburton Co. troop support contract over the objections of a top contracting officer, even contending -- and then withdrawing -- a claim that U.S. forces faced an emergency if the company didn't get the extra work. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Election Likely Won't Affect Portfolios - Associated Press · 	Sneaky Spyware Becomes Internet Scourge - Associated Press · 	Economy Grows at 3.7 Percent Annual Rate - Associated Press · 	Judge Approves AT&T Wireless Settlement - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Trick or Treat boo!  boo! Still Need a Halloween Costume? Forbes.com We dress the billionaires for Halloween--so you can dress as them.  Featured Article Wall St. Wants a Quick, Clean Election Reuters It won't be just a sigh of relief on Wall Street but an ovation if the U.S. presidential election on Tuesday produces a clear winner and avoids a repeat of the chaotic 2000 results...  Investing Ideas The Other Side of Oil Motley Fool Most people think oil companies are awash in cash -- until they look at the balance sheet. Need a Yawner Investment? Motley Fool If you're in the market for a safe little something for your portfolio, buy bonds. No Unhedged Postions Over The Weekend TradingMarkets.com Kevin Haggerty explains why. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Latest Knight Ridder/MSNBC Poll Shows Bush Ahead in Four 'Red' States He Won in 2000 - Arkansas, Ohio, Missouri, W. Virginia; Leads Kerry in Iowa, Which Gore Carried in 2000 Sun 12:01AM ET - PR Newswire Bin Laden, Election Overshadow Earnings Sat 10:00PM ET - Reuters Ohio Court Orders Statewide Permanent Injunction Barring Multiple Challengers at Polling Places Sat 9:56PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...   Auto Loans on Yahoo! Finance How Much of Your Car Should You Finance?  Bankrate.com Next to buying a home or funding your children's education, buying a car is the most expensive purchase you'll make. And car-related expenses, such as gas, maintenance and insurance, can take a big bite out of your wallet. See also: Auto Loan Help | Today's Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.All the gold ever mined is equal in size to which of the following? 	A tennis court to a depth of 19 meters 	A Boeing 747 	A football field to a depth of 19 meters 	The Empire State building    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
