20041118
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	18	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Thursday, November 18, 2004, 12:36AM ET - U.S. Markets open in 8 hours and 54 minutes. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,549.57	+61.92	(+0.59%) Nasdaq	2,099.68	+21.06	(+1.01%) S&P 500	1,181.94	+6.51	(+0.55%) 10-Yr Bond	4.144%	-0.064 NYSE Volume	1,688,005,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,240,606,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Kmart to Acquire Sears in $11 Billion Deal Wed 11:08PM  ET - Associated Press A resurgent Kmart, home of the blue light special, is buying the once-dominant Sears department store chain in a surprising $11 billion gamble it is counting on to help both better compete with Wal-Mart and other big-box retailers. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Wed 4:35 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	APEC Ministers Start Trade, Security Talks - Associated Press · 	Consumer Prices Rise 0.6 Percent in Oct. - Associated Press · 	Markets Push Dollar to New Low Vs. Euro - Associated Press · 	Lawyers Probe Handling of Boeing Contract - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories... Special Edition	Provided by Inc.com  Are You Paying Yourself Enough?Inc: Are You Paying Yourself Enough? You're getting by on a paltry salary because that's what's best for your company. Or is it? An owner's low pay can send the wrong message -- to investors and employees. Here's how to pick the magic number. Plus: What other CEOs take home. more Special Editions...  Featured Article Mileage tax break gets biggest one-year boost ever CBS MarketWatch Rising gasoline prices are pinching business owners' transportation budgets nationwide, but the IRS' largest-ever annual increase in the mileage-deduction rate will ease the pain...  Money Matters Split Decisions: How to Settle the Financial Issues When You Divorce by Suze Orman No matter what is going on in the economy or the world, you can pretty much count on the fact that 50 percent of the weddings today eventually end in divorce. Given those not-so-great marriage odds, I thought it would be smart to lay down the financial dos and don'ts of divorce... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas The Market Has Spoken Loudly--Are You Participating? TradingMarkets.com Tim Truebenbach dissects the market action for you. Network Appliance's Bold Bets Paying Handsome Returns Investor's Business Daily Big and sometimes risky investments made by Network Appliance a few years ago are paying off. My Four Seasons Honeymoon Motley Fool How the resorts became my five-bagger. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Yahoo's Overture Extends Sponsored Search Relationship with MSN Through June 2006 Thu 12:08AM ET - Business Wire Tetra Tech Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2004 Results Wed 11:27PM ET - Business Wire GenCorp Prices Public Offering of 7,500,000 Common Shares Wed 11:15PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...   Mortgages on Yahoo! Finance Will deficits cause mortgage rates to rise? Bankrate.com Will the deficit send mortgage rates higher? Is the mortgage interest deduction in danger? One thing is certain: Homeowners need to pay attention...  See also: Today's Rates | Mortgage Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.Which group makes up a larger segment of the home-buying market? 	Single women 	Single men    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
