20040627
 Wayback Machine	  MAY	JUN	JUL Previous capture	27	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Saturday, June 26 2004 9:40pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,371.84	-71.97	(-0.69%) Nasdaq	2,025.47	+9.90	(+0.49%) S&P 500	1,134.43	-6.22	(-0.55%) 10-Yr Bond	4.645%	-0.001	  NYSE Volume	1,817,496,000 Nasdaq Volume	2,671,327,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes...Quizzes Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Lockheed Martin Ends Planned Titan Merger Sat 5:05pm ET - Reuters Top U.S. defense contractor Lockheed Martin Corp. on Saturday called off its planned $1.66 billion acquisition of Titan Corp. , ending an almost yearlong courtship. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Sat 10:03am ET Weekly Recap - It was all about biding time this week as the market continued to look ahead to next week's key events, namely the FOMC meeting, the restoration of sovereignty to Iraq, and the June employment report.  The waiting period, however, wasn't marked with total disinterest as a number...more Special Edition	Provided by Forbes.com jeter.jpg	The Highest Paid Athletes Ten years ago athletes in individual sports dominated Forbes' list of the highest-paid athletes. Today a golfer (Tiger Woods) and a race car driver (Michael Schumacher) occupy the top two spots, but only one boxer (Oscar De La Hoya) and one tennis player (Andre Agassi) made the cut. more special edition... Money Matters Get with the Program, Mutual Funds are Way Too 20th Century by Suze Orman Can I ask you something? You don't use a Betamax to watch movies at home, do you? And your car isn't outfitted with an 8-track tape player, right?... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters IPOs on a High After First-Half Surge Sat 7:34pm ET - Reuters It is shaping up to be the best year for initial public offerings since the mania of 2000, with deals in the first half of 2004 surpassing those done in all of 2003. · 	StocksView: Eye on Rate-Sensitive Shares · 	New Jobs Beneficial, May Lack Benefits · 	Mutual Funds Fight Disclosure Reforms · 	Microsoft in Court Over EU Sanctions more business news... Investing Ideas Bears Argue Their Case For Caution Investor's Business Daily For the 1,100 financial advisers gathered in Chicago for the 16th annual Morningstar Investment Conference on Thursday and Friday, gloomy forecasts for stocks and bonds seemed to drown out the bullish crowd. Anti-Virus Businesses Adjust Product Lines As Competition Rises Investor's Business Daily As online threats evolve, anti-virus firms are working hard to keep up with the times and each other. The big vendors are broadening product sets to bolster safety and carve deeper market share as competition between them heats up. More On How To Stay With A Winning Stock TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry shares his trading experiences with you. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Insurance on Yahoo! Finance The Lowdown on Life Insurance Medical Exams insure.com You will probably be asked to have a medical examination when you apply for life insurance, depending on your age and the amount of insurance you're buying. This can include a basic physical exam, urine specimen, blood work, EKG, and X-ray... My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Multiply your age by your household income. Divide by 10. What does the resulting number mean? 	The maximum you should keep in a tax-deferred plan 	The total wages on which your Social Security benefits will be based 	A rough rule of thumb for what you'll need for retirement 	What your net worth should be today      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland   NOTICE: Yahoo! Bill Pay is a service provided by Checkfree and is subject to the CheckFree Terms and Conditions Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Copyright Policy Questions or Comments?  Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
