20030406
 Wayback Machine	  FEB	APR	MAY Previous capture	6	Next capture 2002	2003	2004 8,927 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Finance Home - Yahoo! - Help Yahoo! News, Entertainment, and Sports Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Sunday, April 6 2003 9:58am ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s)   Symbol Lookup   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	8,277.15	+36.77	(+0.45%) Nasdaq	1,383.51	-13.07	(-0.94%) S&P 500	878.85	+2.40	(+0.27%) 10-Yr Bond	3.944%	+0.028	  NYSE Volume	1,225,562,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,367,009,000 Quote data provided by Reuters  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Biotech, Energy, Media, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing 101... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... Bonds Rates, Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards... Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Analyzer... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Consumer Mood, War Costs in Focus Sat 3:29pm ET - Reuters Markets will ponder next week the potential economic consequences of the U.S.-led war on Iraq even if fighting is not over yet, with U.S. consumer sentiment and retail sales data offering clues on the war's early impact. Special Coverage: War with IRAQ Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 4:30pm ET It was the same song - different verse - as the major indices traded in lethargic fashion today as buyers remained hesitant to bid stocks any higher given the onset of the weekend and the ongoing war effort...more Finance Spotlight ·	Find a Mortgage Get up to 4 offers.	·	Research Reports Wall Street at great prices. ·	Credit Reports Get yours online for $9.95	·	Real-Time Package Live streaming quotes for $9.95/mo  Business News Cost-Conscious Airlines Gain Leverage Sun 12:46am ET - Reuters American Airlines Inc.'s ability to wring $1.8 billion in concessions from its workers should help other big U.S. carriers sort out their own labor cost problems without a trip to bankruptcy court, analysts say.  Aggressive Stock Funds Stage Rally Sun 12:53am ET - Reuters Some once-hot U.S. stock mutual funds are partying like it's 1999, even though many investors are no longer around to celebrate.  Motorola's Racketeering Claims Dismissed Sat 3:39pm ET - Reuters A federal judge in New York, acting on an appeals court decision, dismissed Motorola Inc.'s racketeering claims against the family that owns Turkey's No. 2 wireless operator, but left open the possibility they could be reinstated.  Stocks to March to War Beat Sat 7:29am ET - Reuters Wall Street is expected to keep close tabs on the Iraq war next week, with stocks trading in a narrow range amid a light economic calendar and as the first batch of quarterly earnings starts to trickle in.  Fed Exec: Patent Process Needs Balance Sun 2:37am ET - Reuters The U.S. patent process needs to protect intellectual property without stifling innovation, a balancing act that challenges those involved with patent policy, Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Roger Ferguson said on Saturday.  more business news...     My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Proponents of "expectations investing" believe that long-term cash flows, and not a company's earnings (EPS), determine its stock value. Why? 	EPS is easy to illegally manipulate 	EPS can grow even through poor management decisions 	Cash flow expectations are less influenced by sentiment 	All of the above     (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Online Investing - FREE Trades for a month Get FREE TRADES for a month with TD Waterhouse click here World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · Denmark  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Norway  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Sweden  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2003 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Quote technology by TIBCO Software, Inc. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
