20050226
 Wayback Machine	  JAN	FEB	MAR Previous capture	26	Next capture 2004	2005	2006 8,931 captures 2 Dec 98 - 17 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Friday, February 25, 2005, 10:32PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories How Much Does It Cost to Win an Oscar? Forbes.com Do films that win the Oscar for Best Picture cost more to make? We compare budgets of award-winning films to determine the price of quality. Testing iPod Accessories The Wall Street Journal Online A round-up of new products that can help you get the most out of your music. Oscar Winners Live Longer Forbes.com A recent study suggests that winning an Oscar can extend one's life span dramatically.  The Most Expensive Cars 2005 Forbes.com Our annual guide to the 10 priciest cars on the market and the luxurious features that make them worth every penny.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,841.60	+92.81	(+0.86%) Nasdaq	2,065.40	+13.70	(+0.67%) S&P 500	1,211.37	+11.17	(+0.93%) 10-Yr Bond	4.272%	-0.01 NYSE Volume	1,523,181,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,784,558,000 Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition, Archive... Banking Rates, Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Score... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Planning 101, College... Taxes Tax Guide, Calculators...  Top Stories GDP Report Sends Dow to Year's Best Close Fri 8:21PM  ET - Associated Press A better-than-expected reading of the nation's gross domestic product sent stocks substantially higher for the third straight session Friday, with the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index each posting its best close of the year. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Fri 4:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	4th Quarter Growth Stronger Than Expected - Associated Press · 	Ex-WorldCom Chief Ebbers Plans to Testify - Associated Press · 	ChoicePoint Execs Sold Shares After Breach - Associated Press · 	MCI Stands by Deal to Merge With Verizon - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Top 10 Car-dealer Tricks Bankrate.com "There's a sucker born every minute," carnival king P.T. Barnum allegedly proclaimed in the fall of 1869. And while Barnum was never known to own an auto dealership , some might believe his words live on in the heart of every car salesman. Money Matters Suze OrmanAre You ... Young, Fabulous but Broke? by Suze Orman • Smart tips on career moves • How to save wisely and reasonably • Exclusive, pre-release content from Suze's new book: The Money Book for the Young, Fabulous & Broke more Money Matters Topics... Sponsored by:  Investing Ideas Contrarian Investing Motley Fool You can profit handsomely by leaving the crowd behind. Real Estate: A Solid Option for Added Income Morningstar.com Plus, solutions for short-term needs and easy diversification. Winning Through (Smart) Losing RealMoney by TheStreet.com Ken Wolff says it's one thing to set a stop, but much more important to keep it. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Proposed Merger Jeopardized After Competition Tribunal Pre-hearing Fri 8:48PM ET - PR Newswire InterOil Provides Operational Update on Papua New Guinea Refinery Fri 8:37PM ET - Business Wire FDA Approves First Ever Treatment for Hepatitis C in Patients with HIV Fri 8:30PM ET - PR Newswire more Popular Stories...      Inside Yahoo! Finance Improve Your Credit Score  Experian Credit scores can vary from month to month-even day to day, sometimes. This is because it is calculated based on the credit data available for you at the credit bureau on the day the score is requested by a lender.  See also: Today's Rates | Credit Center  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. How much is the inaccurate reporting of capital gains by individuals expected to cost the government in lost taxes over the next 10 years? 	$50B 	$100B 	$250B 	$650B   (You'll also see how other users have answered.)      World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. S&P 500 index provided by Comstock. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
