20041127
 Wayback Machine	  OCT	NOV	DEC Previous capture	27	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, November 27, 2004, 4:20AM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories The Fastest Cars Forbes.com By price, the 12 cars with the fastest zero-to-sixty times -- one of the most important measurements of a car's performance. The 30 Worst Airport Waits The Wall Street Journal Online A comprehensive look at airport security wait times this fall finds that many travelers are waiting 45 minutes or more to get through security screening at peak times. Where to Go for the Holidays 2004 Travel + Leisure Holiday cheer can also be found in the vibrant colors of a tropical coral reef, in a grand European palace, or at a timeless Himalayan teahouse.  The Most Expensive Gated Communities in America 2004 Forbes.com As long as there have been rich people, there have been gates to keep everyone else out.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,522.23	+1.92	(+0.02%) Nasdaq	2,101.97	-0.57	(-0.03%) S&P 500	1,182.65	+0.89	(+0.08%) 10-Yr Bond	4.24%	+0.045 NYSE Volume	502,648,000 Nasdaq Volume	673,801,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories Shoppers Hunt for 'Black Friday' Bargains Fri 9:31PM  ET - Associated Press Shoppers swarmed the nation's malls and stores on Friday, even before the sun rose, to grab early bird deals on hot items like flat-screen TVs and DVD players as the holiday shopping season officially began. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Fri 1:20 PM ET - Briefing.com · 	Stocks Finish Mixed in Early Close - Associated Press · 	WTO OKs Stiff Penalties on U.S. Exports - Associated Press · 	Audit: Halliburton Lost Track of Property - Associated Press · 	FDA Reviews When Bayer Revealed Drug Risks - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article Offers For Iraqi Currency Cropping Up Investor's Business Daily How's this for that special investor who has everything -- a stack of freshly minted Iraqi dinars?  Happy Thanksgiving leaves.gif happy thanksgivingQuiz: Are You A Financial Turkey? By Suze Orman A Thanksgiving brain workout to burn off some of that stuffing...  Investing Ideas Intel, Taser Int'l move in after-hours trade CBS MarketWatch Intel and Taser International were among the companies whose shares were active following Friday's shortened holiday trading session. Telecom: The Fiber-Optic Quagmire BusinessWeek Online The Baby Bells want to enter cable's market -- without paying the same fees Weekly Wrap: Market Edges Higher As Dollar Declines ETFZone.com Broad market ETFs edged higher this short Thanksgiving week, but the real news was the decline of the dollar. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories Fed Need Not Move on Inflation Wiggles Sat 3:27AM ET - Reuters The 'Mega Millions' Winning Numbers Drawn Friday, Nov. 26, 2004 Fri 11:21PM ET - PR Newswire Space Travel Becomes an Affordable Gift This Holiday Season as Tens of Thousands of People Get Ready to Spend the Year In Space in 2005 Fri 9:00PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...   Auto Loans on Yahoo! Finance How Much of Your Car Should You Finance? Bankrate.com Next to buying a home or funding your children's education, buying a car is the most expensive purchase you'll make. And car-related expenses, such as gas, maintenance and insurance, can take a big bite out of your wallet. See also: Auto Loan Help | Rates | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.How much does a pack of cigarettes cost a 24 year old smoker if you include future costs (reduced life expectancy, second hand smoke, etc.)? 	$30 	$40 	$50 	$60    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
