20040724
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	24	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Saturday, July 24 2004 1:20am ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	9,962.22	-88.11	(-0.88%) Nasdaq	1,849.09	-39.97	(-2.12%) S&P 500	1,086.20	-10.64	(-0.97%) 10-Yr Bond	4.432%	-0.030	  NYSE Volume	1,331,407,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,702,540,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Blue-Chip Dow Closes Below 10,000 Level Fri 5:00pm ET - Reuters Stocks tumbled on Friday after investors were unnerved by disappointing results from Coca-Cola Co. and Microsoft Corp. and fretted about possible attacks at next week's Democratic National Convention. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Sat 1:18am ET Earnings reports once again proved to be a thorn in the market's side as investors dissatisfied with results took the indices significantly lower... The source of the market's malaise was a number of June quarter reports from major tech players, such as Microsoft (MSFT 28.10 -0.90), Amazon.com...more Featured Article	 Convicted CEOs to Get Paid in Prison Associated Press If you were sent to jail, would your employer keep paying you anyway? The obvious answer may not apply when it comes to the chief executive officer... more Associated Press... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Microsoft Says to Hire Up to 7,000 Fri 8:12pm ET - Reuters Microsoft Corp. , the world's largest software maker, said on Friday it will hire as many as 7,000 employees worldwide in its current business year as it continues to expand and to fill vacant positions. · 	FDA OKs Cholesterol Drug Vytorin · 	Halliburton Has Loss, Schlumberger Gains · 	Amazon Down 13 Pct on Slow Growth Fears · 	Maytag Posts Loss and Cuts Forecast more business news... Investing Ideas More On What To Do With A Windfall Profit TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry continues his discussion on money management. Hefty Yields From Potash BusinessWeek Online Netflix: Moving Into Slo-Mo? BusinessWeek Online The rising cost of online ads blindsided the movie outfit. And rivals are looming more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Banking on Yahoo! Finance Who Can Demand Your Digits? Bankrate.com While any business or agency can ask for your number, few can actually demand it -- motor vehicle departments, tax departments and welfare departments, for example...More  See also: Savings Rates | Find a Credit Card My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following is considered the least corrupt country in the world? 	Iceland 	Singapore 	Switzerland 	Finland      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes...  World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
