20020922
 Wayback Machine	  AUG	SEP	OCT Previous capture	22	Next capture 2001	2002	2003 8,927 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Saturday, September 21 2002 9:27pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s)   Symbol Lookup   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	7,986.02	+43.63	(+0.55%) Nasdaq	1,221.09	+4.64	(+0.38%) S&P 500	845.39	+2.07	(+0.25%) 10-Yr Bond	3.776%	-0.004	  NYSE Volume	1,765,752,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,798,690,000 Quote data provided by Reuters  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Education Glossary, Investing 101... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... Bonds Rates, Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Savings Finder Long Distance, Credit Cards...New Bill Pay Sign Up Now, Demo... Banking PayDirect, Funds Transfer... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Analyzer... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, 401k, Basics... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Economy on Track, Faces Risks - Advisor Sat 6:30pm ET White House economic adviser Glenn Hubbard said on Saturday that strong consumer spending was providing a solid foundation for the U.S. recovery but that the economy faced risks. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 5:10pm ET Closing Summary: The market was choppy for most of the session. After opening higher the Dow and the Nasdaq were on either side of unchanged all day. The volatility can be largely attributed to it being a triple witching session as contracts for futures, S&P options and individual stock options...more Finance Spotlight ·	Find a Mortgage Get up to 4 offers.	·	Research Reports Wall Street at great prices. ·	Credit Reports Get yours online for $9.95	·	Real-Time Package Live streaming quotes for $9.95/mo  Business News Bear Stearns Reinstates Formal Dress Code Sat 7:42am ET Sober times call for sober clothes. On Tuesday, Bear Stearns Cos. Inc. became the latest Wall Street firm to abandon its "business casual" dress code, telling employees in an internal e-mail that formal work attire will be required as of Sept. 30.  U.S. Says Oil Prices Harmful Sat 6:30pm ET The United States on Saturday, in an apparent swipe at the OPEC cartel, called high oil prices harmful and potentially damaging to world economic growth.  Biotech Drug Copycats Get Ready to Pounce Sat 6:30pm ET Generic producers are training their guns on the biotechnology industry after cutting a swathe through profits at some of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies with cheap copycat drugs.  Wall St. Strategists Say Stocks to Rise Sat 6:30pm ET Wall Street strategists are guardedly optimistic that stocks will rise from near five-year lows by the end of the year, even as they atone for the errant bullish calls they made earlier this year, a Reuters poll shows.  Cost Worries Loom over HMO Shares Sat 9:32am ET Managed care stocks, a profitable refuge in the sinking stock market most of this year, have been weighed down in the past month as investors worry about how HMOs will grapple with soaring health costs and maintain fat profit margins.  more business news...     My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. In 1995, which of these asset types accounted for more of the net worth of the top 20% of U.S. households (by income)? 	Motor vehicles (net of any auto loans) 	Interest-bearing accounts at a bank 	Stocks and mutual fund shares (not held in an IRA)     (You'll also see how other users have answered.)  Get 25 FREE Trades when you open a TD Waterouse Brokerage Account Today!   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · Denmark  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Norway  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Sweden  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2002 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy - Terms of Service To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy Quote technology by TIBCO Software, Inc. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
