20040717
 Wayback Machine	  JUN	JUL	AUG Previous capture	17	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Search - Site Map - Yahoo! - Help Welcome [Sign In]	To track stocks & more, Register Yahoo! Finance	Friday, July 16 2004 9:59pm ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI    Symbol Lookup | Finance Search   Market Summary	[edit] Nasdaq Intraday Dow	10,139.78	-23.38	(-0.23%) Nasdaq	1,883.15	-29.56	(-1.55%) S&P 500	1,101.39	-5.30	(-0.48%) 10-Yr Bond	4.361%	-0.124	  NYSE Volume	1,446,726,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,792,171,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview, Indices, Actives... Stock Research Reports, Screener, Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek, SmartMoney,  Forbes, FT.com... Industries Autos, Banks, Biotech, Telecom... Education Glossary, Investing, Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds, Screener, Prospectus... ETFs Top Performers, ETFs 101... Bonds Rates, ScreenerBond Screener, Bonds 101... Options Actives, Analyzer, Exp Calendar... Community Boards, Chat, Groups... International Indices, News, Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth, Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up, Demo, Savings Finder... Banking PayDirect, Credit CardsCredit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report, Credit Manager... Loans Auto, Mortgage, Home Equity... Insurance Auto, Health, Home, Life... Planning Finance Planner, College... Taxes Online Filing, Tax Guide...  	 Top Stories Stocks Fall on Economy, Profit Worries Fri 5:19pm ET - Reuters U.S. stocks fell on Friday, hit by a sell-off in technology shares, as investors' worries about slowing growth in the economy and corporate profits overshadowed upbeat earnings from tech bellwether IBM . Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices Market Overview Fri 9:58pm ET Like a lot of sessions this week, the market started with great promise - underpinned by a number of bullish developments - but finished noticeably lower as buyers backed away from their positions...more Special Edition	Provided by Forbes.com home_80x80.gif	Most Expensive Homes - Part 2 Part two in our four-part look at the most expensive homes in America takes us south, where everything's big--especially the prices of mansions. more special edition... Money Matters Putting Johnny Last - Choosing Between Your Retirement and Your Child's College Savings by Suze Orman I don't have to tell you that raising kids presents an endless series of challenges, from getting your baby to sleep through the night to forking over the car keys to your teenager for the first time. But one of the most daunting challenges parents deal with is actually something they impose on themselves... more Money Matters Topics... News from Reuters Consumer Inflation Moderates in June Fri 8:16pm ET - Reuters The pace of U.S. consumer price increases moderated in June, the government said on Friday, bolstering financial market hopes the Federal Reserve will stick with a policy of gradual interest-rate rises. · 	Stewart Gets Minimum, Vows Comeback · 	Dell Boosts Outlook, Rollins Becomes CEO · 	PNC to Buy Riggs for $700 Million · 	IBM's Chip Woes Weigh on Apple more business news... Investing Ideas What To Do When A Stock Moves In Your Favor TradingMarkets.com Dave Landry shows you a method of keeping more of your hard-earned trading gains. aaiPharma's Headache Lingers Motley Fool The tiny pharmaceutical company regains its ticker symbol, but controversy still reigns. Investors Cool to Equity Funds TheStreet.com Equity-based mutual funds see net outflows in the last week as market wilts. more investing ideas... News Tracker Use Yahoo! to track news here throughout the day --from over 3,000 news sources-- about private companies, products, and people. A free service. Get Started Now | Sign In   Mutual Funds on Yahoo! Finance Why Have Stocks Returned 7%? Common Sense on Mutual Funds Why have stocks provided long-term real returns of 7 percent? Answer: Almost entirely because of the rising earnings and dividends of U.S. corporations...  See also: Top-Performing Mutual Funds My Recent Quotes  	Symbol	Name	Last	Change	   	Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.      Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial  Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q. Which of the following products is NOT sold by a company that is one of the top ten IPO gainers in the last year? 	Biopharmaceuticals 	Chicken Wings 	Fuel Cells 	Fine Jewelry      (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here previous quizzes... World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland  Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Ad Feedback. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy.   Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data provided by Reuters. Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Market Guide. Other Disclaimers. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
