20041017
 Wayback Machine	  SEP	OCT	NOV Previous capture	17	Next capture 2003	2004	2005 8,929 captures 2 Dec 98 - 16 Feb 14  sparklines Close Help Yahoo! Finance	Finance Home - My Yahoo - Yahoo! - Help  To track stocks & more, Register  Today in Finance	Saturday, October 16, 2004, 10:14PM ET - U.S. Markets Closed. Enter Symbol(s): e.g. YHOO, ^DJI  	   	 Symbol Lookup | Finance Search  Weekend Life outside market hours · Read all Weekend stories Up and Down with SpaceShipOne BusinessWeek Online Designed and built in three years at a cost of under $25 million, SpaceShipOne has just given space tourism a rocket-powered boost, and investors and sponsors are lining up. Tax Bill Targets Executive Pay Perk The Wall Street Journal Online Congress has reformed the rules governing deferred-compensation plans which shield income from taxation until retirement. Matador for a Day Travel + Leisure Dan Halpern steps into the ring for lessons in the dangerous art of bullfighting.  Driving the New Porsche 911 Forbes.com What it's like behind the wheel of the two newest 911s: the Carrera and the hot rod Carrera S.    Market Summary	Edit Nasdaq Intraday Dow	9,933.38	+38.93	(+0.39%) Nasdaq	1,911.50	+8.48	(+0.45%) S&P 500	1,108.20	+4.91	(+0.45%) 10-Yr Bond	4.053%	+0.038 NYSE Volume	1,647,498,000 Nasdaq Volume	1,652,681,000 Quote data provided by Reuters Brokers:  Investing Today's Markets Overview,  Indices,  Actives... Stock Research Reports,  Screener,  Financials... Financial News BusinessWeek,  SmartMoney,   Forbes,  FT.com,  News Tracker... Industries Biotech,  Energy,  Media,  Telecom... Education Glossary,  Investing 101,  Quizzes... Mutual Funds Top Funds,  Screener,  Prospectus... ETFs  Top Performers,  ETFs 101... Bonds Rates,  Screener,  Bonds 101... Options Actives,  Analyzer,  Exp Calendar... Community Boards,  Chat,  Groups... International Indices,  News,  Currency...  Personal Finance Money Manager Net Worth,  Expense Manager... Bill Pay Sign Up,  Demo,  Savings Finder... Money Matters with Suze Orman Current Edition,  Archive... Banking PayDirect,  Credit Cards... Credit Reports Online Report,  Credit Manager... Loans Auto,  Mortgage,  Home Equity... Insurance Auto,  Health,  Home,  Life... Planning Finance Planner,  College...   Taxes Online Filing,  Tax Guide...  Top Stories US Airways May Slash Pay by 21 Percent Sat 4:19PM  ET - Associated Press A federal bankruptcy judge has granted approval for US Airways to cut the pay of its union workers by 21 percent through February to help the nation's seventh-largest airline stay in business and emerge from bankruptcy. Most Actives, US Indices, World Indices · 	Market Overview:  Sat 10:03 AM ET - Briefing.com · 	Greenspan Not Worried About Energy Prices - Associated Press · 	Stocks Rise on Strong Retail Sales Report - Associated Press · 	Oil Prices Near Record $55-A-Barrel Level - Associated Press · 	U.S. Bioterror Plan Frustrates Industry - Associated Press  	 more Top Stories...  Featured Article The Unsung CEO BusinessWeek Online United Technologies' CEO George David runs a $31 billion company that outguns GE in shareholder return. Who is he -- and how does he do it?  Money Matters Top Credit Card Pitfalls to Avoid by Suze Orman It sure isn't easy making a buck these days. The stock market isn't delivering returns to brag about. And in today's tight job market I don't see too many bosses who look like they're about to back up the armored truck and start handing out raises. But I have a surefire way for many of you to make a guaranteed 18 percent... more Money Matters Topics...  Investing Ideas Stocks for a Weak Market Forbes Magazine In The Early Stages Of A Rally, Here's What's Important TradingMarkets.com Tim TRruebenbach gives you some pointers. Bone Up On Your Investing Skills By Reading The Market's 'Classics' Investor's Business Daily For many IBD readers, William O'Neil's "How to Make Money in Stocks" led to an epiphany on how the market really works and how to grow rich with growth stocks. more Investing Ideas...  Popular Stories ATA Airlines Confirms Ratification of Flight Attendant Concession Package Sat 9:22PM ET - PR Newswire Remarks By President Bush at Victory 2004 Rally Sat 8:50PM ET - PR Newswire Media Alert: ATI Technologies Hosting Career Fair to Find New Talent Sat 8:40PM ET - Business Wire more Popular Stories...    College Savings on Yahoo! Finance The ABCs of Saving For College  Kiplinger.com Whether college is 18 years away or right around the corner these strategies will help jump-start your college savings plans.  See also: 529 FAQs | Calculators  My Recent Quotes Symbol	Name	Last	Change	  Up to 10 of your recent quotes will be displayed here.  	    Get streaming real-time quotes - Free Trial   Quote data provided by Reuters and delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, 20 minutes for NYSE and Amex. For delay times on other exchanges see exchange table.  Finance Quiz Q.What percentage of the U.S. population does not have a bank account? 	2.3% 	5.1% 	9.7% 	14.9%    (You'll also see how other users have answered.) TD Waterhouse - Special Offer Trade Free for One Month with TD Waterhouse click here   World Yahoo! Finance: Argentina  · Australia & NZ  · Brazil  · Canada  · China  · Chinese  · France  · French Canada  · Germany  · Hong Kong  · India  · Italy  · Japan  · Korea  · Mexico  · Singapore  · Spain  · Spanish  · Taiwan  · UK & Ireland Copyright © 2004 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service. To learn more about Yahoo!'s use of personal information, please read the Privacy Policy. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). Quote data, Market Cap and Avg Vol provided by Reuters. S&P 500 Index provided by ComStock. Data and information is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading purposes. Neither Yahoo! nor any of its data or content providers (such as Reuters, CSI and exchanges) shall be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. By accessing the Yahoo! site, a user agrees not to redistribute the information found therein.
