20020515
 China Seeks a Delicate Balance With North Korean Refugees --- Tolerance of Migrants Fleeing Famine Risks Fraying Pyongyang Ties   By By Charles Hutzler, The Wall Street Journal,  May 24, 2002  The raid -- and its startlingly inconclusive result -- highlight the extent to which Chinese authorities tolerate the growing presence of North Koreans in China's northern border counties. Since famine in the mid-1990s made life unbearable for many in North Korea, China has been content to let its border areas act as a safety valve, allowing tens of thousands of North Koreans to come in search of food, money and temporary refuge. It is a careful balancing act. If Beijing appears too welcoming, the number of border-crossers could surge and imperil a crucial strategic imperative for China: the survival of fellow communist North Korea and China's enduring influence on the Korean Peninsula.  Now this delicate balance is threatened by a series of recent attempts by North Koreans to sneak into foreign diplomatic compounds in China and gain asylum in South Korea. So far, 38 North Koreans have succeeded in the past two months, and their successes are encouragement for others to follow. Foreign activists are orchestrating the asylum gambits in hopes of pressuring Beijing to grant the North Koreans refugee status, which by international treaty would require China to provide for their welfare and not repatriate them.  Instead, China has responded by ordering a roundup of North Koreans. Arrests are being made as far away as Kunming in the southwest -- a way station for North Koreans trying to make their way to Vietnam -- say diplomats and aid groups. Among those arrested is a Korean-American missionary; two South Korean activists also have been detained. Along the North Korean border, residents say, police regularly fill a detention center in the city of Tumen and then drive the captives back across the border to Namyang, a decrepit-looking North Korean city of concrete blocks with weathered paint and broken window panes.   
