20040409
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Review / Film -- The Texas Movie Massacre: Forgettable 'Alamo' Script Weakens a Historic Drama; Disney's Budget Cuts Backfire, But Thornton Hits the Mark; Long Wait for a Losing Battle   By Morgenstern, Joe, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 9, 2004  "The Alamo" also suffers from severely unresolved tone. It wants to inspire, just as its audience wants to be inspired; when the film was announced two years ago, Disney's chief, Michael Eisner, promised that it would "capture the post-Sept. 11 surge in patriotism." Yet Carter Burwell's mournful score keeps telling us that we're watching tragedy, and the script -- credited to Leslie Bohem, Stephen Gaghan and Mr. [John Lee Hancock] -- goes heavy on the doom with a deterministic view of events that [John Wayne]'s film glorified. On one side is an army led by a nationalistic Mexican monster, on the other brave Americans betrayed by bureaucratic incompetence or greed. Wayne's version played fast and loose with historical facts, but at least it was heartfelt.  It's all the more remarkable, then, that two actors here break through the prevailing blandness, albeit with contrasting styles. [Emilio Echevarria], who played the derelict hit man in "Amores Perros," does it the old-fashioned way, by chewing the scenery and everything else in sight. This Santa Anna can manipulate staff officers with the suaveness of an aristocrat, or stun them with explosive scorn. "What are the lives of soldiers," he asks, "but so many chickens?" [Billy Bob Thornton] takes an understated, contemporary approach, in a role that bespeaks a modern attitude toward fame. (It's the movie's best writing by far, even if it is anachronistic.) His canny [Davy Crockett], who would rather be called David, doesn't confuse himself with the legendary backwoodsman in the coonskin cap, a national celebrity who has already become a character on the living stage. "I only started wearin' that thing," Crockett says, "because the feller did in the play they wrote about me." The feller in the movie fits Mr. Thornton like a glove.  Mr. [Kari] matches the pace of his film to the pace of life in Noi's village, where next to nothing happens over long stretches of time. "Noi" requires patience, but rewards it -- with odd vignettes of the boy's prickly relationship with his drunken father, with touching intimations of his love for a pretty gas-station attendant. Everyone in town agrees, however grudgingly, that Noi is a good kid. But it's easy for us to see -- here's the familiar part -- that he's also a lonely, alienated kid in a godforsaken place where he's the only alien. Given the white-on-white color scheme, I didn't expect so many shades of feeling.   
