20070606
 The Afternoon Report: Reading the Receipts Online edition  By Annett, Tim, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 7, 2007  April turned out to be the cruelest month for many stores since bell bottoms and lava lamps were lining the racks. An index of sales at stores open at least a year kept by the International Council of Shopping Centers dipped to its lowest level since 1970, as an early Easter yanked holiday sales into March and frigid, damp weather kept many consumers from heading out to the mall. The fact that prices at the pump surged above $3 a gallon in many regions didn't help much, nor did the ongoing unraveling of the housing market. Such bleak results didn't provide much hope that spending would continue to prop up the economy in the second quarter -- had it not been for eager consumers, the economy would have shifted into reverse during the first quarter -- but they also seemed to suggest that there was nowhere to go but up. To be sure, May's results met nobody's definition of a shopping spree, but they were better than the abysmal performance seen by so many stores in that grim April. Ken Perkins of research firm RetailMetrics said May's sales were "clearly a bounceback from April but the gains were modest."  The Group of Eight leading nations agreed that the world's biggest polluters need to be involved in setting a framework to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, and said it will "consider seriously" the idea of a 50% cut in emissions by 2050. President Bush indicated before the summit that he wouldn't agree to any deal that put a hard target on reducing emissions, and last week the president made his own proposal for talks between the 15 largest polluters that would set a goal for reducing emissions and then allow each country decide on their own how to implement it. The G-8 hailed the president's strategy of bringing nations like India and China to the table. German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who has made a big push to reach some kind of agreement at the summit, offered a much stronger interpretation of the day's announcement. She hailed the agreement as a "huge success," adding "no one can escape this political declaration. It is an enormous step forward." Ms. Merkel told reporters the "toughest point was the halving of emissions ... that was the hardest step." She said, "We agreed that we need reduction goals and obligatory reduction goals."  NYSE Euronext, parent of the New York Stock Exchange, said it may ditch the "NY" in its name if it continues to strike deals with other exchange companies. No name change is in its current plans, but company officials said at its annual shareholder meeting that it might argue for a more inclusive name in the future, like World Exchange of Global Stock Exchange. NYSE Euronext CEO John Thain said this week that the pace of exchange consolidation has moved more quickly than the NYSE wanted. He also said NYSE may want to acquire a U.S. futures exchange. "Consolidation will continue," Mr. Thain said. "We need to be very careful about stretching the management team," but "we also don't want to miss opportunities." The name change may come sooner than later.   
