20051002
 Airlines Are Not a Free-Enterprise Ideal   The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 3, 2005  Mr. [Holman Jenkins Jr.] claims that the "government" is interfering in what would otherwise be a market function leading to other outcomes -- liquidation for example. But neither is the government, nor bankruptcy proper, responsible for UAL's current operating status: its suppliers are. They can freely foreclose or freely cooperate as they assess market alternatives and asset re-marketing risk  Additionally, bankruptcy law and antitrust rules, however much they may represent a market distortion, are nonetheless imbedded in a legal market that functions at arms length from the carriers as well. The Justice Deparment may have misjudged antitrust applications in the airline sector, but the airlines themselves have typically not made very coherent, consistent or durable arguments for antitrust clearance. Their failure, not the government's. And in the meantime, most airlines have freely continued to add capacity, despite overwhelming excess. Their choice, not the government's. As to efficient aggregate capacity levels, observe the 16 pending airline applications at the Transportaton Department, all a product of a deregulated market.  Mr. [Holman Jenkins Jr.] claims that the "government" is interfering in what would otherwise be a market function leading to other outcomes -- liquidation for example. But neither is the government, nor bankruptcy proper, responsible for UAL's current operating status: its suppliers are. They can freely foreclose or freely cooperate as they assess market alternatives and asset re-marketing risk  Additionally, bankruptcy law and antitrust rules, however much they may represent a market distortion, are nonetheless imbedded in a legal market that functions at arms length from the carriers as well. The Justice Deparment may have misjudged antitrust applications in the airline sector, but the airlines themselves have typically not made very coherent, consistent or durable arguments for antitrust clearance. Their failure, not the government's. And in the meantime, most airlines have freely continued to add capacity, despite overwhelming excess. Their choice, not the government's. As to efficient aggregate capacity levels, observe the 16 pending airline applications at the Transportaton Department, all a product of a deregulated market.  Mr. [Holman Jenkins Jr.] claims that the "government" is interfering in what would otherwise be a market function leading to other outcomes -- liquidation for example. But neither is the government, nor bankruptcy proper, responsible for UAL's current operating status: its suppliers are. They can freely foreclose or freely cooperate as they assess market alternatives and asset re-marketing risk  Additionally, bankruptcy law and antitrust rules, however much they may represent a market distortion, are nonetheless imbedded in a legal market that functions at arms length from the carriers as well. The Justice Deparment may have misjudged antitrust applications in the airline sector, but the airlines themselves have typically not made very coherent, consistent or durable arguments for antitrust clearance. Their failure, not the government's. And in the meantime, most airlines have freely continued to add capacity, despite overwhelming excess. Their choice, not the government's. As to efficient aggregate capacity levels, observe the 16 pending airline applications at the Transportaton Department, all a product of a deregulated market.   
