20000802
 Irish Cops, Suburban Anarchists and Me   By By Tunku Varadarajan, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 3, 2000  I scamper outside in search of a taxi, only to find cacophony of another kind. There is a fight in progress at the head of the cab rank, between a burly driver and two female controllers. Although the driver's accent betrays his Nigerian origins (definitely a Yoruba, I note to myself), his command over demotic American vocabulary is perfect. The controllers have suspended him from the rank because his cab is too dirty. "You're giving the city a bad name," one says, in matronly admonition. The Yoruba can scarcely believe his ears and launches into a vigorous riposte. Some 20 taxis, held up by this argument, honk their horns, adding their bit to Philadelphia's mounting disrepute.  A man taps my shoulder and asks me to take his picture against the backdrop of demonstrators. He is Ky Ngo, a Vietnamese-American from Garden Grove, Calif. Dressed in a traditional "ao dai" robe and "khan dong" hat, he waves an American flag as well as one from the erstwhile South Vietnam. "I want to remind Americans that 50,000 Americans died to defend freedom in my country. They were heroes." A hiss emits from a passing clump of anarchists. "Ho Chi Minh," one of them bays, discourteously. Mr. Ky shakes his head morosely. "They just don't understand."  Monday, 3 p.m.: Nearly three hours after setting out from City Hall, the demo reaches the First Union Center, where the plutocrats and class-enemies are gathered. The police, taking no chances, herd the marchers into FDR Park nearby. A group of anarchists, however, is menacing a lone and somewhat lurid anti-abortion activist. His banner reads: "Fornicators and Drunkards Will Join Tupac In Hell." (The Tupac in question is Tupac Shakur, the late rap musician.) The man, clearly from the far fringes of the Christian Right, attempts gamely to get his point across. He is drenched, and silenced, in mid-oration, as someone pours the contents of a water bottle over his head. A palm is thrust through the crowd and connects hard with the poor man's chest.   
