20001204
 World Watch   By Compiled by David I. Oyama, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 5, 2000  Italian oil and gas company ENI said the value of real-estate sales it has under way is more than three trillion lire ($1.36 billion). That figure takes into account the 2.215 trillion lire offered by Goldman Sachs Group's Whitehall Fund for a portfolio of ENI properties that includes 90% of ENI unit Immobiliare Metanopoli. Whitehall is buying ENI's controlling stake in Metanopoli at a significant discount to market prices. ENI said that Metanopoli will bring about 1.208 trillion lire, and the remaining 1.007 trillion lire will come from other properties belonging to ENI group companies.  South Korea's government plans to begin injecting public funds into the country's financial sector this month, the Finance Ministry said. The government plans to inject a total of 50 trillion won ($41.3 billion) in tranches. The ministry said it will complete plans this month for the use of 25 trillion won, and will decide on the use of the remaining funds later. It plans to inject 7.1 trillion won into five ailing banks: Hanvit Bank, Peace Bank of Korea, Cheju Bank, Kwangju Bank and Seoulbank. It will also inject 8.3 trillion won into Seoul Guaranty Insurance; two trillion won into insolvent merchant banks; 1.9 trillion won into Korea Development Bank and Industrial Bank of Korea; and 5.9 trillion won into Korea First Bank. The National Assembly on Saturday approved the issuance of bonds to raise 40 trillion won. The government has also earmarked 10 trillion won from previously raised funds. Finance Minister Jin Nyum said he would "try to ensure this is the last time we need to raise public funds."  Mexico's Federal Competition Commission said it objected to media company Televisa's proposed purchase of Grupo Acir Telecomunicaciones, the country's largest radio broadcaster. The antimonopoly regulator, known as the CFC, said competitors would be squeezed out of the market, especially in advertising. A CFC spokesman said the commission's vote "was unanimously against the buyout." It wasn't immediately clear what the next step would be, or whether Televisa could appeal the ruling. Televisa, which controls an 80% share of Mexico's television audience, in September proposed that a joint venture with Clear Channel Communications of the U.S. buy Acir for $101 million and merge it with Televisa's radio unit, Radiopolis. The merged company would have owned and operated 116 radio stations in Mexico. Clear Channel was to get a 24% stake and Televisa 50.01% of the new company, to be called Grupo Acir-Radiopolis. Clear Channel has been a partner in Acir since 1977. Televisa this year attempted to buy a controlling stake in rival broadcaster Grupo Radio Centro, but the deal fell through in August.   
