20020906
 The Organization Kid   By By Nancy Ann Jeffrey, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 6, 2002  Meet the new buttoned-down, ultra-organized CEO: your teenager. If it looks like kids are growing up even faster than usual lately, one of the reasons is they're getting a big push -- from parents and teachers seemingly intent on raising a new generation of Organization Kids. They're getting help from an industry that's deluging kids with MBA-style strategies for success, from books (a teen-tailored version of the blockbuster "Who Moved My Cheese?" hits stores this fall) and $400 Palm organizers to workshops and tapes that push go-getter mantras like "sharpen the saw." Schools across the country are buying into the idea big-time, shelling out thousands on journals, workbooks and other classroom materials intended to teach organizational skills.  Try telling that to Amy Ahlum, a 17-year-old senior at Hilliard Darby High School in Hilliard, Ohio. Two years ago, she enrolled in an afterschool program there that teaches time management. Ms. Ahlum says she's learned to map out her tasks using the "time-quadrant" technique (using four categories based on a task's urgency and importance). She has assessed a career goal (pediatrician) and come up with a Plan B (marine biologist). Her mother, Lana Ahlum, says she's confident her daughter's organizational skills will put her ahead of the crowd: "Some kids aren't quite prepared to go to college right out of high school, but Amy's ready right now," she says.  In some schools, it's now actually mandatory to get organized. In Austin, Texas, Murchison Middle School requires every student to purchase a planner (the PTA buys them in bulk and resells them to the students for $6.) Since last year, "The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens" has been a formal part of the school's social studies curriculum. Students write personal "mission statements" and are given quizzes on their familiarity with the student planners, being grilled as to what was last Thursday's assignment, for example. Lynda Redler, principal of Murchison, says statewide reading scores for the school this year are up 5% compared with last year, an improvement she attributes in part to the program.   
