20010520
 Thinking Things Over: All Good Things Must End   By By Robert L. Bartley, The Wall Street Journal,  May 21, 2001  The current round of fireworks started with a May 7 divorce court hearing on Gracie Mansion, the taxpayer-provided mayoral residence. The mayor's estranged wife, actress Donna Hanover, asked the judge to enjoin visits to the mansion by his frequent companion, pharmaceutical saleswoman Judith Nathan. The mayor and Ms. Nathan had appeared there together at an official event a few weeks earlier. When the other side refused a gag order, Mr. Giuliani's lawyer unleashed a round of mudslinging -- e.g., saying that the next mayor would find Ms. Hanover "chained to a chandelier."  Another helpmate in his cancer treatments, as our Dorothy Rabinowitz has reported, was Michael Milken, Mr. Giuliani's most famous Wall Street scalp. I've always thought that Mr. Milken would never have gone to jail if he'd delayed his convoluted plea bargain another month, when the first of the Second Circuit reversals came in. In my short-hand, Mr. Giuliani was another con victim of Ivan Boesky, who got a lighter sentence by fingering Mr. Milken and promising goods he couldn't deliver. Mayor Giuliani backed a Milken pardon as the Clinton term ended, but the president passed this by in favor of fugitive trader Marc Rich, who fled the country rather than face a Giuliani prosecution stretching racketeering laws.  In my 1990 list of 21 taboos, every fifth item was "abolish rent control." Mayor Giuliani once supported decontrol, understanding that World War II "emergency" rent caps and their progeny have forced investment into luxury housing and created a slumlord atmosphere in controlled housing. But Gov. George Pataki, an even more outspoken decontrol advocate, folded at a whiff of legislative grapeshot, and the mayor also threw in the towel. A few weeks ago Mr. Giuliani actually blasted his Rent Guidelines Board for allowing too big an increase; its chairman resigned in disgust.   
