20010220
 Health & Medicine (A Special Report) --- Gatekeepers in Retreat: Amid all the complaints about HMOs, here's the not-so-awful secret: Consumers never had it so good   By By Barbara Martinez, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 21, 2001  "The old HMO concept was that we would carve out the country into little mini-health systems where each HMO had a gatekeeper and they would ration your health care," says Uwe Reinhardt, a Princeton University economist. That model worked in the mid-90s, he says, with premiums actually flat to down. But, he adds, as the economic expansion accelerated and labor markets tightened, employers grew more responsive to concerns about HMOs' restrictions. In so doing, they morphed managed care back into something more similar to the traditional fee-for-service system.  Overall, the picture has never been brighter for most health-plan members, who are finally experiencing less aggravation and more choices. For example, some 21% of HMOs in 1999 didn't have "gatekeeper-physician" rules, up from 13% two years before. And the types of services getting covered today are growing, too, even among tightfisted HMOs. About 63% of HMOs sponsored by large employers covered some form of alternative medicine in 1999, up from fewer than half in 1998. Meanwhile, coverage for chiropractors has risen to 60% of HMOs from 45%, and coverage for acupuncture and acupressure treatments is now up to 16% from 9% during the same period. HMO coverage for infertility-drug therapies has risen to 36% from 32%.  Meanwhile, negative HMO stereotypes influence consumers' ratings of their health plans, according to a study published in September by the Washington-based independent research group Center for Studying Health System Change, funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The study found that 24% of people surveyed incorrectly identified whether they were in an HMO. And people who mistakenly thought that they were in an HMO were more likely to say they were dissatisfied with their plan than people who knew they weren't in an HMO. After adjusting for the mistakes people made in identifying their type of plan, however, the researchers found that satisfaction ratings for HMOs and other plans were about equal.   
