20060202
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; On Sports: Holding the Line on Defense Spending; Does It Pay to Hire on the Cheap? NFL Salary Numbers Reveal Seattle's Super Bowl Gamble   By Walker, Sam, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 3, 2006  That's where the similarities end. On the whole, Pittsburgh's approach to the cap is balanced, conservative and orthodox. Of the total amount the Steelers spent on salaries, they gave $49 million, or about 58%, to starting players. That's average for the NFL and considerably better than the Seahawks, who are paying $5 million more to players who come off the bench. Another measure of Pittsburgh's superiority: the amount of salary cap "dead money" that's being paid to players no longer on the squad. In this category, the Steelers' $9 million is below the NFL norm and far better than Seattle's $18 million, which is well above average.  Though the two Super Bowl quarterbacks -- Seattle's Matt Hasselbeck and Pittsburgh's Ben Roethlisberger -- have put up similar performance numbers during the regular season, Mr. Roethlisberger's $4.2 million cap value is almost $2 million less than Mr. Hasselbeck's, keeping the Steelers under the league average for the position. And while Pittsburgh is anything but a passing team, it managed to assemble a solid corps of wide receivers, including bona-fide superstar Hines Ward, for about 33% less than a typical team spends. "The Steelers don't overpay anybody," says Mike Giddings Jr. of Pro Scout Inc., a company that assesses talent for NFL teams.  Mr. [Tim Ruskell] calls this bargain unit "a work in progress," and says he doesn't believe it's the kind of model other teams will follow. But he won't go as far as to say its success is a fluke. By focusing on underpriced or underappreciated players who were as long on character and potential as they were short on intimidating size and athleticism, he says the team was hoping to improve the odds of having a defense that would surprise people. "I do hear the compliments, but I give the credit to the players," Mr. Ruskell says. When it came to picking out the right characters to fill the team's holes, he says, "we definitely hit a pretty good batting average."   
