20001105
 Back to Basics: Forget the New Economy. `Booty' Long thinks the future lies in brownies   By By Glenn Ruffenach, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 6, 2000  On a recent morning in Smyrna, Ga., about 10 miles northwest of Atlanta, a winded Thomas "Booty" Long, age 60, is explaining what is obvious to anyone who spends more than a few minutes watching him work. "This [puff] is very [puff] labor-intensive [puff]." Mr. [Long] makes and sells brownies, a business the retired financial-services executive started two years ago. On this particular morning, an early crush of holiday orders has him scrambling to stay one step ahead of his customers. Working alone (his sole employee has gone to buy supplies), Mr. Long, dressed in gray T-shirt, black shorts and boat shoes, moves quickly from storage room to kitchen to desk, setting out ingredients, preparing his batter and scribbling down orders that come across the telephone.  Beyond the kitchen, simply getting his product into customers' hands proved a struggle. He had long thought of his brownies primarily as a corporate gift, one that businesses would be eager to send to clients. If he could simply identify, he reasoned, the person in an organization who made that buying decision, the business would almost grow itself. Finding those individuals, though, proved far tougher than imagined. What's more, Mr. Long had only a single package size to offer, one that proved expensive even for corporate tastes: two-dozen brownies for $45.  Indeed, the trick at this point, Mr. Long indicates, is to increase sales at a pace he's comfortable with. He's advertising in some new outlets, including Bon Appetit magazine, and considering whether to add more ovens. (A new slicing machine to cut brownies, at a cost of $24,000, was rejected as a "little too uptown.") Mr. Long has even made several concessions to technology. A fax machine sits in a corner of his office, and a desktop computer tracks customers and their orders (although "I still keep hard copies of everything," he says.) There is also a rudimentary Web site (www.bootysbrownies.com) "primarily to show people what the package looks like," Mr. Long explains. "But very little business has come over the Web."   
