20001220
 California Utility Says It's Near a Default --- Filing by Big Unit of Edison Is First Clear Evidence Of Danger of Chapter 11   By By Rebecca Smith and John Emshwiller, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 21, 2000  The utilities said their own lenders are reluctant to extend any more credit. Indeed, unless the situation improves significantly , Standard & Poor's Corp. said its ratings on the bonds and other securities of Southern California Edison, the utility unit of Edison International, based in Rosemead, Calif., as well as those of Pacific Gas & Electric, a unit of PG&E Corp. of San Francisco, will "drop deeply into speculative grade." Such a move into junk-bond status would make it unlikely that either utility would be able to borrow the money needed to pay their bills. It would also put them in default on the covenants of existing loans, which would accelerate the slide toward insolvency.  While California wrestled with the problem, governors from several Western states met in Denver to come up with a regionwide approach "to head off any overall disaster or crisis that could easily occur," said Wyoming Gov. Jim Geringer, who headed the meeting attended by five governors. The governors agreed to focus on ways to conserve electricity and set a week from today as a date for coming up with a "coordinated conservation strategy." He said several states, including California, Oregon and Washington, have shown that public calls for conservation can reduce demand.  The governors' meeting, attended by FERC commissioners James Hoecker and William Massey, as well as by the energy secretary, Mr. [Bill Richardson], included a call for FERC to prepare a report concerning the impact of price caps on electricity markets. Mr. Geringer said the Western governors are divided on whether price caps are a good idea. He opposes them. "It's like pushing on one small portion of the problem," he said. Mr. Geringer said he was disappointed that Gov. [Gray Davis] didn't attend the meeting.   
