20020609
 E-Commerce (A Special Report): Selling Strategies --- Messaging -- Seeking Closure? Why is AOL holding back on video messaging? Some people have a theory...   By By Peter Loftus, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 10, 2002  If the company wants to offer video instant messaging over Time Warner's cable lines, it first has to enable its instant-messaging users (who include, but aren't limited to, subscribers to AOL's Internet-access service) to communicate with users of competing messaging services, the Federal Communications Commission ruled in January of last year. And that would remove one incentive for being an AOL instant-messaging customer. As long as people using different instant-messaging services can't reach each other that way, AOL has a big advantage because it has more people signed up for its service than its two nearest competitors combined; that means the people prospective customers want to reach are more likely to be on an AOL system. But if there were access across systems, prospective customers might see little difference between joining AOL and signing up with a rival, because they could easily trade messages with AOL users.  AOL denies that it is delaying the rollout of video messaging to avoid opening up its system. But Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at New York Internet research firm Jupiter Media Metrix Inc., is among those observers who say the regulatory conditions have acted as a disincentive for AOL to introduce advanced instant messaging. For now, some analysts think AOL has concluded that any loss of customers or potential customers who are seeking advanced services elsewhere is outweighed by the risk of losing customers entailed in making its system compatible with others.  Indeed, a continuation of that trend eventually might provide AOL an argument for severing the regulatory link between advanced messaging services and system compatibility. The conditions imposed on AOL's acquisition of Time Warner by the FCC were aimed in part at keeping the company from monopolizing the instant-messaging market, but AOL could argue that it no longer dominates the market to the extent that it did in January 2001, the time of the FCC ruling. AOL declines to comment on whether it would consider such a course, and the FCC won't comment on its view of such a scenario. But Jupiter's Mr. Gartenberg points out that AOL's rivals could argue that the only reason its market dominance had waned was that it refused to adopt system compatibility.   
