19930804
 On Disk: Nazi-Era `Degenerate Music' Exhumed ---- Barrymore Laurence Scherer   The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 5, 1993  After more than half a century of neglect, an important body of music is being exhumed in a new compact disk series from London Records that might well prove the label's most significant project since Georg Solti's "Ring." "Entartete Musik" ("Degenerate Music") takes its name from a notorious exhibition of proscribed music staged by the Nazis in 1938. The composers being revived now were officially banned and shunned in Hitler's Germany. The list of projected recordings is both ambitious and tantalizing.  Through early 1996, London has slated releases of 13 CD packages of music by composers persecuted by the Nazi regime: symphonies by Ernest Toch and Hanns Eisler, string quartets by Hans Krasa and Paul Hindemith, Franz Waxman's cantata "The Song of Terezin" (1965). Opera, however, gets the most attention, and the projected titles include works that have till now been mere footnotes in history: Viktor Ulman's "Der Kaiser von Atlantis" (scheduled for October release), Franz Schreker's "Die Gezeichneten" and "Der Gewaltige Hahnrei" by Berthold Goldschmidt, at 90 the last of this generation still living.  No two composers could have been as dissimilar in background or artistic outlook. The Jewish Korngold (1897-1957) was the son of Julius Korngold, Vienna's most powerful conservative music critic. A Wunderkind whom Mahler had pronounced a genius at seven, Korngold's first two operas, the one-act comedy "Der Ring des Polykrates" and the more decadent costume drama "Violanta," were both performed before his 19th birthday. Krenek (1900-1991), a Catholic, was known as the ultramodernist among the emerging avant-garde. Both "Jonny" and "Heliane" appeared in 1927, and to assure the success of his son's work, Julius Korngold did all he could to besmirch Krenek's. Ironically, "Jonny," advertised as the world's first jazz opera, proved an irresistible novelty as it circulated through the theaters of Europe. Korngold's elaborate mystery play, which he declared his masterpiece, failed to catch on, even before the Nazis did their dirty work.   
