20050509
 Negotiating the Terms Of Your Death; Medical Advances Give Patients More Control Over How and When They Die   By Petersen, Andrea, The Wall Street Journal,  May 10, 2005  In these programs, doctors are increasingly willing to keep trying a variety of treatments until something works. Charles Davis, 44 years old, is dying of a brain tumor. He was using a portable morphine pump at home, which left him only semiconscious, but he was still in horrific pain. Last month, doctors at the San Diego Hospice & Palliative Care program admitted him to its in-patient center and switched his medication to fentanyl, another opioid. The new medication brought his pain under control and allowed him to be more alert; he was then able to return home. Doctors have been working with his wife, Jean, to help Mr. Davis ultimately die at home and without pain. "What would make me happy is to get him home and have as normal a life as possible," Mrs. Davis says.  Charles von Gunten, director of the Center for Palliative Studies at San Diego Hospice & Palliative Care, treated a young mother who was dying of a brain tumor. She wanted to stay alive -- no matter how much pain she was in -- for as long as she could feel the presence of her six-month-old child. Dr. von Gunten treated her with an aggressive course of chemotherapy to buy her some extra time. But after she lost consciousness and was no longer aware of her baby, life support was removed and she died. "It was so helpful to understand her goal and that we needed to be aggressive," Dr. von Gunten says. "We may have changed the timing of her death by a few days."  Ms. [Vailia Dennis]'s doctor and hospice program, San Diego Hospice & Palliative Care, have put her on low-dose morphine pills to control pain and have programmed the emergency-response button she wears on a necklace to call not 911, but rather a neighbor who will come to be with her, and a hospice program that will send a caregiver. Otherwise, dialing 911 could land her in a hospital. "I love this house," she says. "I'm absolutely paranoid about the hospital. No way can I find comfort there."   
