20070109
 The Morning Brief: U.S. Airstrikes in Somalia May Reignite Hard Feelings   By Chai, Barbara, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 10, 2007  News of Sunday's attack "immediately set off new waves of anti- American anger in Mogadishu, Somalia's battle-scarred capital, where the United States has a complicated legacy," the New York Times says. "They're just trying to get revenge for what we did to them in 1993," Deeq Salad Mursel, a taxi driver, tells the Times, referring to the "Black Hawk Down" incident in which Somali gunmen killed 18 American soldiers and brought down two American helicopters in a Mogadishu battle. And U.S. military and intelligence officials tell the paper they expected more military strikes. The U.S. campaign also runs the risk of "stoking greater instability in a region already racked by strife," even though U.S. defense officials have cited "credible intelligence" that al Qaeda leaders were using southern Somalia as a base to plan regional attacks, The Wall Street Journal adds.  Apple unveiled its much-anticipated iPhone, a slim gadget that will download and play iTunes songs, browse the Web, send email, take photos and make calls. But with its high price tag the iPhone is still a gamble for Apple amid a tough cellphone market. "At $499 and $599, it's a pretty expensive deal," Rob Glaser, chief executive of iTunes rival Real Networks, tells the New York Times. "Steve [Jobs] is more focused on not cannibalizing iPod sales than on driving volume of phones. Those are not high-volume prices." Apple's iPhone is set to compete against other high-end smartphones that include Motorola's Q, Research in Motion's BlackBerry Pearl and Palm's Treo 750, all released in the past year, The Wall Street Journal adds. In the broader cellphone market, Apple is also going up against handsets priced at $99 or less, which dominate the U.S. market. But Mr. Jobs prefers to think of the iPhone "as reinventing the phone," as he said yesterday during his presentation. And Apple's successful reinvention of the digital-music environment with the iPod could help predict the future of the iPhone. ". . .if anybody could pull it off, it will be Apple," handset analyst Hugues de la Vergne of research firm Gartner Inc., tells the Journal.  "Okay," Robert Iles, 22, remembers replying to his boss at the Atchison, Kansas, store where he works, when told he would be getting a raise to $7.25 an hour. Mr. Iles wanted to seem businesslike, he tells the Washington Post. "But inside I was doing the cha-cha-cha," he said. "It was like going from lower class to lower middle class." Today in Washington, the House is scheduled to vote on whether to increase the federal minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25.   
