19990505
 Alfred Brendel as Poet   By By Anne Midgette, The Wall Street Journal,  May 6, 1999  But art at its best can bring with it an element of the unexpected; and Mr. Brendel's latest seven-concert cycle at Carnegie Hall, which wrapped up on Monday, showed the musician in rather a different light. Instead of focusing the beam of his concentration on a single composer -- as he did when he became the first pianist to play all 32 Beethoven sonatas in Carnegie Hall in 1983 -- Mr. Brendel refracted it through a prism of classical music to show himself in a range of roles: as recitalist and soloist with orchestra; as chamber music player and vocal accompanist, championing young artists; and even as poet. On Monday, at Weill Recital Hall, he read selections from "One Finger Too Many," a volume of English translations of his German poetry, which appeared in the U.S. last month (Random House).  Short, humorous, antic, Mr. Brendel's poems seem a radical departure to those who think of the pianist in terms of seriousness and sobriety. Yet this seeming contradiction between high art and humor, the serious and the silly, seems easily reconciled, or at least contained, in the person of the pianist himself -- even in his appearance. With his tousled hair, glasses and air of slight absent-mindedness, he can come across as a distant and erudite professor onstage; but the uninitiated may be more attuned to the ready laugh and the twinkle in his eye that he offers in person. In one of Mr. Brendel's poems, a woman accosts him with the words, "You're Woody Allen."  "Language, dealing with words, has always interested me," Mr. Brendel says of his motivation for writing. In fact, he doesn't say this at all, because he's speaking German, but that's the gist of his meaning. Austrian by birth, resident in London since 1970, and a published author in both German and English, Mr. Brendel is well familiar with the issue of translation, in music ("whenever we hear Beethoven on a present-day instrument, we are listening to a sort of transcription") as well as in language (having spent six months on the translation of the poems in "One Finger Too Many").   
