20070303
 Real Time: Mightier Than the Pen; Never Mind Cursive -- Will Children Still Write In an Era Ruled by Computers and PDA? Online edition  By Fry, Jason, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 4, 2007  I grew up in a pen-and-paper world, but [Joshua] is growing up with computers and PDAs. That will shape his daily life in ways I'll struggle to grasp but he'll take for granted. That's not new: I've written about how TiVo has left my son baffled by commercials and by the idea that sometimes he can't watch whatever he wants or immediately see something that just happen again. I've also pondered how he'll likely never answer a ringing phone that's not supposed to be for him. I'm sure something similar will happen with printing and handwriting -- something routine for him but very strange to me.  I can't know what kind of cellphone he'll use when he's older, but given technology's march I'm sure it'll be one with all the functions of a PDA. I also bet he'll never have to learn the bizarre tap-tap- tapping of converting a telephone keypad's trios of numbers to text messages. As iPhone-style touchscreens become widespread and predictive text improves, that particular skill will probably become a parlor trick retained by today's teens and twentysomethings -- the Aughts' version of being great at Morse code.  I've read heartbreaking accounts of 9/11 families keeping cellphone accounts active so children can hear a lost parent's voice, or of soldiers in Iraq talking about how much it means to them to be able to exchange email with their families daily. My grandfather sent me typed letters when I was a boy, and I can't imagine they'd mean any more to me if they'd been hand-written. I keep a folder full of old emails from friends that made me laugh or smile. And what would letter writers a century ago have made of the idea that teenage boyfriends and girlfriends would one day thrill at shared silences during late- night phone calls? There is something appealing about words made by a human hand, and I hope calligraphy survives as an art form to be admired. But writing words by hand isn't what makes us human. And in worrying too much about form, we risk forgetting how adaptable the heart is at investing our communications with feeling.   
