20051006
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Movies: Hollywood's Holiday Surprise   By Lippman, John, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 7, 2005  Much of this year's serious fare has an overtly political edge. Sexual harassment on the job sparks the small-town battles of "North Country," inspired by the real-life struggles of female coal miners in Minnesota. Corrupt Louisiana politics runs through "All the King's Men," Steven Zaillian's film of the Robert Penn Warren novel, which opens in mid-December. After years of mainly steering clear of today's headlines, studios are hitting Mideast themes: Next month Universal Pictures will release "Jarhead," about a Marine sharpshooter in the first Gulf War, while Warner Bros. will open "Syriana," whose hero is based on a real-life Middle East operative for the Central Intelligence Agency. At the end of this month, a Warner unit specializing in independent films will offer "Paradise Now," a Nazareth-born filmmaker's portrayal of two Palestinians preparing to become suicide bombers.  So some filmmakers are performing a balancing act. Doug Wick, the producer of "Jarhead," says the movie focuses on one soldier's experiences, while the political musings of Anthony Swofford's book have been largely whittled down. "Geopolitics is really boring in movies. It's not visual," Mr. Wick says. Adds Stephen Gaghan, the director of "Syriana": "These can't be policy papers. We're in the entertainment business."  Still, more politically themed movies may be on the way. Former eBay President Jeff Skoll recently founded Participant Productions, which has taken on movies with a message -- and helped fund this fall's "Syriana," "North Country" and "Good Night, and Good Luck," about television newsman Edward R. Murrow's battle against Sen. Joseph McCarthy's anticommunism in 1954. One upcoming project: a movie adapted from Eric Schlosser's book about the fast-food business, "Fast Food Nation." Says Mr. Skoll, whose Skoll Foundation works with activist groups to raise awareness for issues in the movies: "We're looking for social change, first and foremost."   
