19990709
 Review/ Film: `American Pie' Makes Up In Snap, Crackle and Pop What It Lacks in Taste --- Aiming at Raunchy Comedy, It Manages to be Terribly Funny And Genuinely Affecting as Well   By By Joe Morgenstern, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 9, 1999  Another high-school comedy in a crowded field, "American Pie" centers on four buddies, virgins all, who are desperate to have sex before their graduation three weeks hence. No premise could be more crassly commercial, and nothing has deterred the movie's young writer, Adam Herz, or its director, Paul Weitz -- both virgins until now as feature-filmmakers -- in their search for raunchy humor. Calling the film tasteless would understate the case, since bad taste rules (after being redefined by the success of last summer's "There's Something About Mary"). But calling it crass doesn't convey the full flavor either, for "American Pie," on top of being terribly funny, can also be genuinely affecting, as well as intricately shrewd, on the subject of young men coming of age in a sex-sodden culture. (Typically for the genre, the movie views most of its young women as alluring but opaque Others.)  Similarly, Mr. Herz's script, which snaps and crackles with one-liners and pops with outrageous situations, gets an emotional and behavioral grounding from the director, Mr. Weitz, whose instincts are sound even when his technique is shaky. (The most inventive situation involves live sex on the Internet.) Richard Crudo did the handsome cinematography, and the excellent cast includes Jason Biggs, Tara Reid, Eugene Levy (as a deadpan lascivious father), Jennifer Coolidge (as a surrogate Mrs. Robinson), Alyson Hannigan, Shannon Elizabeth, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Seann W. Scott and Natasha Lyonne. I must confess that I dreaded seeing yet another gross-out comedy about high-school kids, and there were times when I tired not only of this one's crudities, but of its narrow focus on idle rich kids in white-bread suburbs -- Andy Hardy Tries to Make Love. Still, "American Pie" kept me laughing and finally turned me around. Really good bad taste has its rewards.   
