19910804
 Pitching Dreams: A Best-Selling Author Builds His Fortune On Get-Rich Advice --- But Are Charles Givens's Ideas Misleading and Simplistic, As His Critics Contend? --- Inquiries From Regulators   By By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr., The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 5, 1991  And then there's the rest of the empire: He operates a nationwide educational organization that he says has 360,000 members, and he has built a complex structure of affiliated companies that sell investment products. Mustachioed and dapper, the 50-year-old Mr. Givens often can be seen on late-night television in a paid "infomercial" that touts his free seminars and depicts him enjoying the good life: He lives with his second wife, who he says once won a Miss Sexy Orlando contest, in a lakefront estate near Orlando, complete with pool, spas, and chef. The theme of his pitch is simple: Millionaire tells the average Joe how to make it big.  But is it so simple? Many investment and tax professionals are roundly criticizing "Wealth Without Risk" as simplistic, exaggerated and downright inaccurate. What's more, the Securities and Exchange Commission and state securities regulators in North Dakota are also raising questions. They are probing whether Mr. Givens has failed to disclose material information to investors about the risks involved in his real estate partnerships, says a person familiar with the investigations. Insurance regulators in North Dakota shut down his Life Insurance Clearinghouse, which they allege made claims that were "untrue, deceptive or misleading." And separately, the Internal Revenue Service has disputed the way Mr. Givens did his taxes; he ended up paying a total of $3.1 million in back taxes and interest in a settlement.  Whether or not Mr. Givens has provided investors a way to build wealth without risk, he has found a way to do it for himself through his privately owned Charles J. Givens Organization. Mr. Givens says he made $12.5 million last year in salary and royalties from reference materials sold by his organization, and paid $4.5 million in income taxes. He says his net worth is $110 million, including personal property and investments in radio stations, banks, real estate and other businesses.   
