20070506
 Ex-Dow Jones Executives Oppose Murdoch's Bid   By Matthew Karnitschnig and Sarah Ellison, The Wall Street Journal,  May 7, 2007  "We're disappointed in Mr. Ottaway's comments which unfortunately are based on tired misconceptions and cliches," a News Corp. spokesman said. "The company would be happy to meet with Mr. Ottaway to share with him how we will enhance the journalistic independence and integrity of Dow Jones, while reinvesting in its properties to help it achieve its greatest potential."  Mr. Ottaway's family has been involved with Dow Jones since 1970 when the company acquired his family's chain of newspapers. The Ottaway Newspapers unit has been a financial anchor for Dow Jones for decades, helping to offset cyclical declines in national advertising at The Wall Street Journal and Barron's. A former newspaper reporter, [James H. Ottaway Jr.] served as president and/or chairman of Ottaway Newspapers for 33 years. Unlike most of the Bancrofts, he has been closely involved with the company. He was president of Dow Jones International print publications from 1988 to 1996, and retired as a Dow Jones board member in 2006 after 17 years. Last year, when Dow Jones sold off six of its Ottaway papers, Mr. Ottaway was opposed to the move, arguing the Ottaway papers added important earnings stability to the company, say some executives. He is also passionate about journalistic issues, serving on several organizations devoted to protecting press freedoms.  Most of the independent directors on Dow Jones's board would support pursuing Mr. [Rupert Murdoch]'s offer if it came to the board, according to a person who has been involved in board meetings. Not all directors are enthusiastic about a sale, but "it is hard to say no to that kind of a premium if you're a director," this person said. Chief Executive Rich Zannino spoke in a recent board meeting about the deal's advantages and downsides, said a person who attended. Mr. Zannino has instituted a number of dramatic changes since he took over as CEO of Dow Jones, including replacing much of the company's top management, redesigning The Wall Street Journal and making acquisitions in the digital arena. But those moves have done little for Dow Jones's stock price. As a result, Mr. Zannino sees little possibility of getting Dow Jones's stock to $60 through any measure other than a sale of the company, this person said.   
