20000602
 There Are No Tigers On the Prairie Tour, But, Oh, Those Frogs --- It's the Fringes of Pro Golf, Where One of the Hazards Is a Very Small Paycheck   By By James P. Sterba, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 2, 2000  Enter Mr. [John Turek]. A Vietnam veteran who contemplated a career in sewage treatment before going into roofing, he was selling vocational courses for a trade school when a chance appearance in an infomercial for remote-controlled golf carts propelled him into golf full time. Now, part of his job is to bring a little techno-speak into Prairie Golf's club descriptions. One new putter has a "dual axis cambered sole with insert." Another has a "tri-metal nickel design" with "tri-level sole" and an "innovative diamond milled face." Prairie Golf irons debut this month. Still, clubs are only a tiny part of the Stoakes and Arbogast holding company, Superior Metals, where 70 employees turn out thousands of different parts for John Deere, Ford, Chrysler and other firms.  This is life on the Prairie Golf Tour, where dozens of pro golf's up-and-comers (and down-and-goers) battle for small purses guaranteed by Norm Stoakes and Jim Arbogast, two Omaha machinists who decided seven years ago to diversify beyond John Deere cotton-picker sprockets into putters. In 1996, their Prairie Golf club subsidiary became lead sponsor of the 14-tournament tour, played over 12 spring weeks in Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, Missouri and Iowa. About 50 regulars -- guys with nicknames like Sticks, Lids, Gooch, Bruiser, Wiggy and Ziggy -- play. Anyone who plunks down the entry fee can join them.  Over near the official Prairie Golf Tour trailer, a combination office and club repair shop, is Scott Kasl, 42, a former college-admissions officer and golf coach who founded the tour six years ago and struck a deal with Messrs. Stoakes and Arbogast to be its chief sponsors. (They pay $50,000 annually.) Their chief worry was that the name Prairie Golf sounded too rural, but then they looked around and agreed that honesty was the best policy.   
