20000703
 Consultant Is Object of Kazak Fund Probe --- Oil Companies Aren't Focus Of Investigation Yet; Swiss Gave Information   By By Hugh Pope and David S. Cloud, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 3, 2000  The Justice Department document -- an 18-page request for information from Swiss authorities -- says: "We are informed that the preliminary investigation in Switzerland establishes that, as part of the delivery of oil concessions in Kazakstan, [James H. Giffen], a U.S. citizen, caused the transfer of substantial amounts of money belonging to certain prominent U.S. oil companies, including Amoco Kazakstan Petroleum Co., Amoco Kazakstan (CPC) Inc., Mobil Oil Corp., and Philips Petroleum Kazakstan Ltd. from U.S. banks to an account in Switzerland controlled by Giffen. The funds then were transferred through shell companies to present and former high-ranking officials of Kazakstan and to family members of these officials."  The document says the Justice Department's Organized Crime and Racketeering Section "is investigating James H. Giffen, a U.S. citizen, and others for violations of U.S. law involving the alleged use of U.S. banks to funnel funds belonging to certain oil companies through Swiss bank accounts and shell companies in Switzerland and the British Virgin Islands for ultimate transfer to present and former high-ranking officials of Kazakstan." The Justice Department document lists five areas under which it is investigating "Mr. Giffen and others." These include possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as of statutes on Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations, money laundering, stolen property and extortion.  The document indicates that Swiss authorities have supplied the U.S. with much of the information regarding the transactions. Investigators have information that shows payments of at least $115 million were made from the U.S. bank accounts of several international oil companies to a numbered account, held at Bankers Trust in New York, belonging to an unidentified Swiss bank, the document says. From that numbered account, disbursements were made to Mr. Giffen, the investigators believe. The Justice Department has asked Switzerland for information about the numbered account.   
