20070709
 The Daily Fix: Federer Outlasts Perilous Nadal In Five-Set Wimbledon Thriller Online edition  By Carl Bialik and Jason Fry, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 10, 2007  "Playing what might be the finest tennis of his life, and from absolutely nowhere, he ripped [Rafael Nadal]'s service apart," Simon Barnes writes in the Times of London. "A running forehand pass, an outlandish flip to the corner, and then a miraculous rally. All of a sudden, [Roger Federer] was home, and the history boy was saluting Bjoern Borg, knowing that five Wimbledon championships in a row put him unequivocally in the category of the all-time great. Nadal did his best to spoil it, for that is his job, but it was Federer's day, just as it has been Federer's half-decade. The battle for world domination with Nadal will continue and good, for this is a rivalry that brings the best from both."  The best from Mr. Nadal keeps getting better (and if he starts winning majors outside of Paris, the Fix will consider dropping the "Mr." before his name, as is traditional here for all-time greats such as Federer). "In last year's final Nadal pushed Federer hard," Steve Bierley writes in the Guardian. "This time he was within a couple of shots in the fifth and final set of becoming only the second Spaniard to win the Wimbledon title. And surely one day he will. There is something elemental about Nadal, although this should not disguise his huge ability to produce the most fantastic shots. There were times when Federer looked back across Centre Court, thankfully bathed in sunlight for the final, and shook his head. The rivalry between them is intense, the respect enormous."  Not surprisingly, [Pete Sampras] is a Federer fan. "I don't see anyone really threatening him seriously, so, you know, I am pulling for him," Sampras said recently on a conference call. "I always pull for the favorite." That tidbit is one of 50 collected at the tournament by SI.com's Jon Wertheim. Another Fix favorite: "Man, these British spectators are clumsy. A player hits an overhead or a mishit into the stands and, without fail, three fans got konked in the head before the ball comes to rest. Seriously, watch for this next year."   
