20040909
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Travel: Up From Cheesesteak; Philly Joins a Growing List Of Foodie Destinations; No Benefit for Big Shots   By Daspin, Eileen, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 10, 2004  Destination Dining Seattle for hiking? Santa Fe for the art? Not in the new restaurant order.This fall, some surprising cities around the country are emerging as newdining destinations. Here are a few of those cities -- and some of theirlocal eateries that are creating buzz. CITY: Austin, Texas RESTAURANTS: Driskill Grill (Texan fusion), Trulucks (seafood and steak),Silhouette, (trendy sushi), Ranch 616 (haute cowboy cuisine; dancing) COMMENT: The restaurant industry in Austin has had modest growth this year-- it's up 3% according to the chamber of commerce -- but you couldn't telltrying to get into spots like Ranch 616 (great fried asparagus) or Trulucks,a Texan chain with its own fishery in Florida. Austin is also headquartersof Whole Foods Markets, the gourmet supermarket chain. CITY: Denver RESTAURANTS: Adega (American food in converted trolley stable), Frasca(Northern Italian), Mirepoix (vegetarian-friendly), Luca d'Italia (pan-friedmozzarella to lamb chops) COMMENT: In a nod to its emerging restaurant scene, Denver had one of thebiggest chef contingents at this year's Aspen Food and Wine Classic. ManyDenver-area restaurants have gourmet pedigrees, like the Italian Frasca,started by two alumni of Napa's famous French Laundry. CITY: Portland, Ore. RESTAURANTS: Blue Hour (boutique hotel decor; edgy Italian-French food),ClarkLewis (new Italian), Paley's Place Bistro (Continental), Park Kitchen(hot dogs to empanadas) COMMENT: Along with Seattle, Portland has helped create "Pacific NorthwestCuisine," a marketing label that means the restaurants use fresh, locallygrown ingredients. In this case, lots of mushrooms, crab and salmon. Amonghardest reservations is ClarkLewis, a new Italian spot in a convertedfurniture warehouse. Get to Blue Hour before 6:30 p.m. for discountedappetizers. CITY: Scottsdale, Ariz. RESTAURANTS: Mosaic (dessert views, global food), Sea Saw (cutting-edgesushi), T. Cook's (Mediterranean meets Arizona spa) COMMENT: Golf, massages and black cod in miso? With the growth in high-endresorts and spas in Scottsdale, chefs have started catering to somewell-heeled (and picky) diners.   
