19990820
 Taste -- Still in Living Color: Are the networks guilty of `ethnic cleansing'? Pass the remote; Let's see   By By Jason L. Riley, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 20, 1999  The final weeks of summer are upon us. Come September, Americans will return from the beach and head for the living-room recliner, TV remote in hand, eager to sample fall's offerings. The major networks -- ABC, CBS, NBC and FOX -- are planning 26 new shows. One or two may be worth watching. Most are expected to fail and a few to bomb. The survivors will likely join the overflowing pool of second-rate fare that floods network television today. In these respects, nothing's changed. What makes next season's programming noteworthy for some, however, is its racial aspect: None of the new shows features a minority in a leading role.  Over the next eight years, America's viewing preferences would make successes of other shows featuring black characters, among them "The Jeffersons" (CBS), "Good Times" (CBS) and "Diff'rent Strokes" (NBC). In 1984, NBC introduced us to the Huxtable family. "The Cosby Show" was as popular and as important to the industry as TV shows get. It not only revitalized NBC, it revitalized the situation comedy, which at the time seemed to be falling out of favor with audiences. (In 1982 and 1983, the top shows were "Dallas," "Dynasty," "Magnum, P.I." and "60 Minutes.") "The Cosby Show" would debut at No. 3, top the charts (quite comfortably) during its next four seasons and rank in the top five for all but its final season. The show would garner record advertising rates and bring in some half-billion dollars upon the sale of its syndication rights in 1988 -- an amount, per episode, more than double any show in history.  More important for understanding the recent history of race and TV are the black-oriented network offerings that came in the Huxtables' wake: "Amen" (NBC), "227" (NBC), "Family Matters" (ABC), "A Different World" (NBC), "Hangin' with Mr. Cooper" (ABC) and "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air" (NBC). The FOX network, which started broadcasting only 12 years ago, cut its teeth on black-oriented programming with popular shows like "In Living Color," "Martin," "Roc" and "Living Single."   
