20070705
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Giving Till It Hurts   By Beatty, Sally, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 6, 2007  CARE USA, the humanitarian relief group, now gets more than 10 gifts a year from donors who are "stretching," up from around five annually a decade ago, says Deb Neuman, senior vice president of external relations. (CARE and other organizations say they categorize people as stretch givers based on financial discussions with them.) Such gifts to the American Baptist Foundation in Valley Forge, Pa., roughly doubled last year over the prior year, says foundation president John Jacobs. The United Way of Greater Kansas City received more than five stretch gifts last year, up from one or two a year four years ago, says Beth Burkes, vice president of major gifts and planned giving. "Years ago we didn't see so much of this kind of thing, but that may be because we weren't asking people to stretch so hard," Ms. Burkes says. "Now we are more open to asking."  Arthur C. Brooks argues in his book "Who Really Cares," which identifies the forces behind American charity, that people who give in a way that pinches are happier and, surprisingly, end up wealthier. According to Mr. Brooks's analysis, a dollar donated to charity led to $3.75 in extra income for the donor in 2000. "They often create great discomfort among their families, but when people give there is substantial personal transformation," says Mr. Brooks, an economist and professor of public administration at Syracuse University's Maxwell School. "They tend to work harder," leading to greater prosperity, and in the long run, he says, "this leads to more success, both financial and nonfinancial."  Early on, they let their only offspring -- Mrs. [Joe Engle]'s son from her first marriage -- know that they don't believe in inherited wealth. "We've seen it ruin so many nice families," says Mrs. Engle. Mrs. Engle's son, Graham Barr, says that was never a problem for him. "I've never been particularly interested in or involved with their financial situation," says Dr. Barr, a medical researcher and father of two. "If you start thinking about that when you are 5 or 10 or 15 or 20," he adds, "you'll probably end up having a pretty unhappy or unfulfilling life."   
