20040109
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Taste: Fabulists at the Firm   By Lasswell, Mark, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 9, 2004  Storytelling as a career must be wearying work, because you never know where the raw material is going to turn up. Vintage television is apparently a goldmine. When Mr. ben Izzy's platitudinous mentor utters some particularly mystical flapdoodle, the author observes: "His words brought to mind an old episode of Star Trek." But everyday conversations can be equally fertile. Mr. ben Izzy, explaining the "lineage" of one tale, writes: "I first heard the story from a psychic in the Mission District of San Francisco."  All this might operationalize the impression that what's going on is an inimitably American form of corporate hokum, but, alas, it's all too imitable. In Britain, corporate storytelling is part of a larger fashion for trying somehow to mesh the arts with business. One prominent advocate is theater director Richard Olivier, who has a second career going as the director of Olivier Mythodrama Associates Limited. "Mythodrama develops authentic leaders," the company says, "through its unique synthesis of theatre skills, psychology, mythology and organisational development." Though Mythodrama offers "customized interventions," its calling card is "Shakespeare-based" consulting. Hard to imagine what Laurence Olivier would have made of a corporate training session called "Long-Term Leadership in a Short-Term World" based on the lessons of "Henry V," but the late actor's son seems to be doing well enough with it. OMA's clients include Nokia, Rolls-Royce and Coors.  Of course, one can't help suspecting that most employees below the level of vice president of knowledge management sensed long ago whether they were the storytelling type and are resistant to on-the- job personality makeovers. But Mr. ben Izzy maintains: "Everyone has to find their own way, but I believe everyone has the potential to be a really effective storyteller." Still, when H-P started running its storytelling workshops based on the [Joel ben Izzy] model a few years ago, the San Jose Mercury News's Sunday magazine reported that at least one group of employees "panned" their storytelling training session. As the project manager explained: "It's not part of what they see as their working tools." End of story.   
