20070311
 Americas: Los Untouchables   By O'Grady, Mary Anastasia, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 12, 2007  Even so, organized crime was held at bay until the 1990s, when the U.S. cracked down heavily on the cocaine routes from the Andes through Florida. Once interdiction in the Caribbean pushed up sharply the cost of shipping product via sea and air, traffickers began seeking the path of least resistance overland through Central America and Mexico. The enormous profits captured from selling this prohibited and therefore high-priced powder strengthened criminal gangs that had previously made do mostly on income from contraband alcohol, illegal gaming and smuggled merchandise. This coincided with the demise of Mexico's one-party system, which for 70 years had tightly controlled law and order.  Despite the bloodshed, little progress was made. The businesses flourished as did the organized criminal networks. Now Mr. [Eduardo Medina- Mora] is raising the stakes again. "You have to overwhelm them and you have to stay long enough to reclaim the space for the citizens," he told me. There are now 27,000 troops and federal police dispatched to six states with the goal of restoring order. The attorney general has also caused a sensation in Mexico by accelerating the extradition of drug suspects to the U.S. In the first seven weeks of this year, Mr. Medina-Mora has already sent 39 of them across the border to face U.S. courts, compared with a total of 53 extraditions in 2005 and 63 last year.  Meanwhile methamphetamines have become the more fashionable high in the U.S. The U.S. has its own "meth" labs so an end to supply from Mexico doesn't suggest an end to supply. Nevertheless, U.S. demand -- combined with weapons smuggled in from the north -- is a big part of Mexico's crime problem. Mr. Medina-Mora says that since these new synthetic drugs depend on chemical ingredients coming from China, India and Germany, his strategy will be to keep a close eye on shipments from these countries. His office also wants Washington to do more to stop bulk shipments of cash (money laundering) and the smuggling of high-powered rifles, ammunition and grenades coming from the U.S.   
