20001105
 It's Not Big Brother Invading Kids' Privacy, It's Mom and Dad --- High-Tech Surveillance Catches Teens at Nearly Every Turn From Internet to Interstate   By By Andrea Petersen, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 6, 2000  Daniel Rosen was brought down by an electronic version of a trail of bread crumbs. While the 13-year-old from West Chester, Pa., has his own computer and access to America Online, his parents use AOL's parental controls, which permit Daniel to go only to those Web sites deemed appropriate for young teens. But that wasn't enough to keep Daniel from wandering around the Web. While his parents weren't looking, Daniel broke into his father's AOL account and visited some X-rated Web sites. "He cracked my password," says the boy's dad, Mike Rosen, who is the chief executive of an Internet software company, 2Ce Inc., in King of Prussia, Pa. "He just tried everything he could think of." Daniel says it wasn't all that hard; the password had been saved on the computer.  Mr. Rosen might never have known about the security breach, but his son left electronic fingerprints. Mr. Rosen started getting unsolicited e-mail messages from pornographic Web sites. Curious, he looked at the browser cache on his computer -- the record of sites visited -- and found addresses with risque names. Mr. Rosen then checked his cookie file. The porn sites had sent a number of cookies -- little computer programs that recognize a returning visitor and track his movements -- onto Mr. Rosen's hard drive. Daniel was in big trouble.  Mr. Zurawksi's elder son, 17-year-old Nate, has felt the effects, however. When Nate was caught visiting some pornographic Web sites, his father forbade him to go online for a week. But after Mr. [Norm Zurawski] unplugged the family's high-speed DSL Internet connection and went to sleep, Nate plugged his computer into a dial-up phone line and got to the Internet using a friend's AOL screen name. "I knew what was going on because I got these AOL screen shots," Mr. Zurawksi says.   
