20010904
 World Watch   By Compiled by David I. Oyama, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 5, 2001  A French court rejected key parts of an alleged-corruption case that had implicated President Jacques Chirac in a party financing scandal, and ruled that a judge shouldn't have tried to compel Mr. Chirac to give evidence. The Paris Appeals Court decision is a victory for Mr. Chirac, who is gearing up for an expected second-term bid next year as the conservative Rally for the Republic Party's candidate, but it doesn't prevent investigators from resuming their inquiries from scratch. The court ordered that Eric Halphen, a judge who has pursued the inquiry since 1994, should be removed from the case, which involved charges of kickbacks and illegal party financing during Mr. Chirac's tenure as Paris's mayor from 1977 to 1995.  Sekisui House, Japan's largest home builder, said it expects to fall into the red for the fiscal year ending Jan. 31 because of slumping housing sales and pension-related charges. It forecast a fiscal-year group net loss of 6.5 billion yen ($54.7 million), compared with profit of 27.5 billion yen predicted earlier, and cut its projected revenue to 1.315 trillion yen from 1.38 trillion yen. Sekisui said it will write off 56.05 billion yen in pension-related liabilities for the first half. It also said it will spend as much as 50 billion yen to buy back as many as 40 million, or 5.5%, of its shares outstanding for cancellation, without giving a specific time frame.  The U.S. and South America's Mercosur trade bloc agreed to begin informal free-trade talks this month, and plan to draft an agenda that could serve as a blueprint for formal negotiations. But progress toward an agreement is contingent on a global trade round through the World Trade Organization, with agricultural trade reform at its core, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick said. Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay form Mercosur, a marketplace of 210 million consumers who produce about $1.17 trillion in goods and services. Mercosur is an important supplier of food to world markets and is a key building bloc in the Bush administration's drive to create the Free Trade Area of the Americas, or FTAA. "A competition in liberalization can work to our advantage. The United States is moving globally with WTO, regionally with FTAA and bilaterally with Singapore and Chile," Mr. Zoellick said in Punta del Este, Uruguay. Exploratory trade talks with Mercosur are slated to begin Sept. 24 in Washington.   
