20070202
 Remembrances   By Miller, Stephen, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 3, 2007  Mr. [Gordon Macklin]'s lineage might have fitted him for a more conventional role. His father, also named Gordon Macklin, was president of the Cleveland Stock Exchange. The younger Macklin followed in his footsteps, joining the Cleveland securities firm of McDonald & Co. in 1950. By the time he joined the NASD's governing board in 1964, he had become "a powerful advocate of self-regulation," according to a former NASD chairman, Gordon L. Teach. In 1970, Mr. Macklin put on hold his plans to establish a general securities firm in Phoenix, Ariz., sold a minority share in his beloved Cleveland Browns and became NASD president. An automated quote system was nearing fruition and a second step toward establishing a full-fledged exchange, a computerized clearing system, was underway. Mr. Macklin's job was to sell it.  By 1973, Nasdaq volume was twice as big as the American Stock Exchange. "The first thing they did was to yell at the scorekeeper," Mr. Macklin said in "What Goes Up," a 2005 oral history of Wall Street. "They went to the SEC and complained that we reported our trades differently," but the Securities and Exchange Commission already had approved Nasdaq's practices. Slow to evolve into a fully- electronic exchange, the AMEX was acquired by Nasdaq's parent at the time, NASD, in 1999. (Amex was later sold back to members.)  Swiss by birth, Mr. [Richard A. Vollenweider] trained as a limnologist (freshwater scientist) at the University of Zurich, and held posts in Sweden, Egypt, and Italy, where he identified runoff from pig farms as a major source of eutrophication in the Po River region. While working as chief limnologist for the Fisheries Research Board at the Canadian Centre for Inland Waters, he developed the mathematical model that determined the level of phosphorus reduction necessary to stabilize the Great Lakes. The report, which he produced for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, led to new standards for nutrient levels in lakes and reservoirs in the U.S. and Canada. In later years, he worked on eutrophication in the canals of Venice and pollution in the Adriatic Sea, as well as the problem of lake acidification due to industrial ammonia pollution.In 1986, he was awarded the Tyler Prize for Environmental Achievement for helping save Lake Erie. The award praised him for "urging humanity to face the fact that 'progress' that degrades the world's ecosystem is not progress at all." Not included in the award citation was who nominated him: Procter & Gamble Co., the country's biggest detergent manufacturer.   
