20020509
 Art Journal: Spring Art Sales Boost the B+ Team --- Short on Stars, Auctioneers Promote the Lesser Lights; Remember Asger Jorn?   By By Alexandra Peers, The Wall Street Journal,  May 10, 2002  The big spring contemporary-art auctions in New York begin Monday. It's a week when auctioneers Sotheby's, Christie's and Phillips try, and try hard, to sell postwar paintings and sculptures valued at more than $125 million. But this year, the greatest art on view is the art of the spin. Facing a shortage of works by names such as Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning, auctioneers are making an impassioned sales pitch that what, and who, fell through the cracks in recent art history is worth a second look -- and millions.  The art experts counter that, given the fickleness of the market and art history, it's their job to make sure that no one gets overlooked. Works by such current best-sellers as Jeff Koons and even Andy Warhol were filler in the auctions a scant decade ago, when "Color-Field" painters ruled, but now some of them are out of favor. Moreover, it's partly "herd-instinct" buying sprees by collectors that are driving the market up, says Tobias Meyer, director of Sotheby's contemporary art department. The company has several notable Warhols for sale and it won't be enough, he says. "Everybody wants Warhol, everybody wants Johns and Rauschenberg, and they can't get them," which leads to the rise of "B+ artists, or of minor Pop artists."  Sometimes, rediscovery campaigns for an artist work -- and are even overdue. In its Impressionist-art sale this week, Christie's sold a painting by Gustave Caillebotte for $6.4 million. That wouldn't have happened five years ago; the cult artist has long been an art-history footnote between Bonnard and Degas. But ever since getting a single great Caillebotte to sell in 1999, Christie's has marketed him as an overlooked superstar. The result: a record $14.3 million sale in 2000 and several Caillebottes sold at Christie's since.   
