20070109
 The Daily Fix: Cooperstown Calls Ripken, Gwynn, But Turns Its Back on McGwire   By Carl Bialik and Jason Fry, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 10, 2007  [Cal Ripken Jr.]'s "election to the Hall of Fame, announced yesterday, is the high point of a script Hollywood would turn down as too sappy," writes John Eisenberg in the Baltimore Sun. "A kid roots for his hometown ball team, which his dad works for and in some ways embodies. The kid grows up, gets drafted by the team and makes it to the major leagues. He wins the World Series. He plays for his dad. He plays with his brother. He never leaves town. He doesn't miss a game for years. He makes sports history. He retires. He makes the Hall of Fame. Never leaves home. I mean, come on. It's a Norman Rockwell painting, a John R. Tunis novel, as wholesome as the (come on!) milk he endorses. You couldn't make it up. But it really happened."  "The question, at least in [Tony Gwynn]'s mind, was whether singles hitters like himself were accorded a lesser form of immortality; whether the sluggers sneered at the table-setters in some sort of informal Hall of Fame hitters hierarchy," he writes. "Obviously, Mr. Padre was overthinking the whole thing. The Padres would not have commissioned a statue of Gwynn (to be unveiled this summer) if he were some second- rate star. This is a guy, remember, with more batting titles than any man breathing. Yet the idle ballplayer's brain is susceptible to all kinds of claptrap during the five years between retirement and a first appearance on the Baseball Writers' Association of America's ballot."  In the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Bernie Miklasz points fingers at more people than Mr. [Mark McGwire]: "The halls of Cooperstown are safe, at least for now, and throughout our great republic, I'm sure we'll sleep better tonight knowing that a suspected steroids user has been barred from taking a spot among the assorted Vaseline-ball pitchers, amphetamine heads, racists, alleged game-fixers and known druggies. . . . Now the sporting press that basically served as McGwire's personal public-relations agency in '98 is having a belated attack of guilt and acting on the impulse to play high priest for a day. And that's a leading reason as to why McGwire went from national hero to national disgrace."   
