20020103
 Art Journal: Goodbye, Dolly! --- Old Barbies Join Beanie Babies In Collectibles Market Bust; Half-Off on `Pink Splendor'   By By Alexandra Peers, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 4, 2002  It wasn't always this way. There's long been a saying that there are three certainties of toy collecting: death, taxes and Barbie. To be sure, world-wide sales of the doll peaked in 1999 (when she was 40), as tech toys, Game Boy and Britney Spears became more popular. But the Barbie brand still racks up an impressive $1.5 billion in annual sales for Mattel. It also spawned a stratospheric growth in resale prices for old Barbies. Some of the older dolls (think zebra-striped swimsuit, pursed red lips and ponytail) changed hands at about $7,000 to $10,000 during the mid-to-late 1990s. At conventions and auctions, everything from vintage outfits like the "Smasheroo" red go-go dress to Barbie board games boomed. Even little sister Skipper fetched more than $400.  So what happened? Well, some collectors say Barbie (collecting, at least) just got a little too easy for her own good. Not only are there the thousands of Barbies on eBay, but the Home Shopping Network and QVC have monthly or quarterly "Barbie Spectaculars" or sales. Mattel itself began to manufacture a whole line of pricey Barbie collectibles targeted at adults; last year alone, that included more than 40 models, from "Fantasy Goddess of the Arctic Barbie" to "Ferrari Barbie," both about $200. Other collectors, meanwhile, grumble that some of the supposedly rare dolls, upon closer inspection, didn't turn out to be so special.  The result, of course, is a lot of disenchanted collectors, both young and old. "Barbie was a fad," says nine-year-old Clare Redden, daughter of a vice chairman of Sotheby's auction house, who's now relegated her Barbies to the guesthouse. They're boring compared with her Game Boy and her Victorian dollhouse, she says. Plus, she's bearish about their future. "If Barbies were collectible, I'd be worth a fortune," she notes. Similarly, Joe Blitman, one of the nation's largest collectors and dealers in Barbie, has packed away many of his thousands of old Barbies (including just heads). "The craze peaked," says the Los Angeles dealer, who nonetheless thinks the market is already rebounding. "I'll be damned if I sell this [stuff] for less than I paid for it."   
