20040906
 A Small Town in Russia   By Satter, David, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 7, 2004  Another equally serious threat to Russia is the danger of a wider war in the North Caucasus. Until recently, Ingushetiya, the Muslim region bordering Chechnya, had remained relatively isolated from the war in Chechnya; but in recent elections, Murat Zyazikov, a former FSB general, was elected governor in an election characterized by ballot- box stuffing, bribery and intimidation at gunpoint. The advent of Mr. Zyazikov led to a rise in support for the Chechens among the Ingush, and Ingush were among the terrorists who seized the school in Beslan. The Ingush are the traditional enemies of the Ossetes, the principal residents of North Ossetia, and when the hostages who escaped the school reported that many of the hostage-takers were Ingush, the news was considered so dangerous that it was not carried by Russian TV. Nonetheless, on the day of the storm, a group of Ossetes seized several dozen Ingush as hostages and tension is now running high throughout North Ossetia.  For three years, President Boris Yeltsin refused all negotiations with Dzhokar Dudaev, the president of Chechnya who, in reality, was only seeking autonomy from Russia. Chechnya was nonetheless left untouched. The situation changed in 1994: Mr. Yeltsin had forcibly dissolved the Russian parliament and lost popular support. This encouraged him to embark on what he assumed would be a short war to bolster his popularity. Without a parliament capable of limiting his power, he sent troops into Chechnya to suppress independence. The result: three years of fighting that killed approximately 6,000 Russian soldiers and 80,000 Chechen civilians. The war ended with the Khasavurt Accords that provided for the withdrawal of Russian troops and a final decision on independence in 2001.  As the people of Beslan bury their dead children, Russia has come to a moment of truth in its pursuit of total capitulation in Chechnya. Moderate elements in Chechnya do exist. In a statement posted on the Chechenpress Web site, Mr. Maskhadov called for all Chechens "to mourn for the innocent victims of the Beslan school siege." Mr. Putin, however, has made no move to try to involve him or any other moderate Chechen separatist in negotiations over the future of Chechnya. Instead, he has indicated that he believes the Chechen problem can be solved by using force. In his speech on the day after the storm of the school, Mr. Putin, paraphrasing a well-known speech by Stalin, said, "We showed weakness and weak people are beaten."   
