20040709
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; The Home Front: I Don't Do Windows -- He Does; Specialty Designers Make Decorating a Team Sport; Silk-Flower Guy, $3,000   By Mechling, Lauren, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 9, 2004  Some homeowners say specialists have talked them into renovations more elaborate than they originally intended. Two years after spending $70,000 for a motorized window-treatment system, Andrew Conrad is wondering what came over him. "I'm a simple guy," says the Malibu geneticist. "Who knew that I needed all those blinds?" Though he loves playing with his three-blind setup -- it lets him mix and match "blackout," "bamboo" and "translucent" -- he remembers the days when he'd just get up and shut the drapes himself, "with those stupid strings."  Still, some expenses are harder to take than others. Jennifer O'Donnell wanted her redesigned house to have a better flow from the living room to the sun room and patio, so her decorator recommended spending $500 extra for a "spatial consultant." Ms. O'Donnell says that instead of coming by the house, the consultant got together with her designer, looked over a diagram of the house, and then suggested putting a big coffee table in the middle of the living room. The Richmond, Va., financial analyst says she was thrilled with the job overall -- but she "opted out" of the coffee table. (The designer, Brooke Ireland, says the spacial consultant was her mother, who lives an hour away and couldn't make it to the house for the rush job. "She's very good at working with space," says Ms. Ireland. "She barely has to see it.")  Specialty of the House  Homeowners don't always have to sell the farm to redecorate the house. Here's a couple of relatively low-cost tips from design and renovation specialists.  ROOM: Library ITEM/PRICE: Customized libraries start at $100 a foot -- leather-bound books are much pricier ADVICE: Buy a few French and Italian titles for the shelves. People don't necessarily have to read these languages, "but they look good," says Judith Lowry, home-library consultant at New York's Argosy Books.  ROOM: Entryway/windows ITEM/PRICE: Security cameras $100-$2,000 ADVICE: Don't put a security camera in a south- or east-facing window. If the sun shines into the lens "you won't be able to see anything on the monitor," says Joe Freeman, security expert in Newtown, Conn.  ROOM: Bathroom ITEM/PRICE: No cost ADVICE: Don't store cosmetics and a hairdryer in the bathroom. Aside from curbing clutter, "a wet environment isn't the ideal place to do hair or makeup -- too humid," says Atlanta bathroom expert Matthew Quinn.  ROOM: Breakfast nook ITEM/PRICE: Counter remodel $3,000-$7,000 ADVICE: Chef Todd English says that rather than buy a separate table, just extend the kitchen counter into the nook and add stools. "If someone's still cooking it keeps you engaged in both rooms," he adds.  ROOM: Kitchen ITEM/PRICE: Coffee maker $35-$180 ADVICE: Splurge on a good-looking coffee maker and and keep it out in the open next to the sink, says Chicago kitchen consultant Amy Benson. Some people tuck it away, but it wastes time to find and fill it.  
