20031209
 Leading the News: U.S. Widens Lawsuit Against Medco   By Martinez, Barbara, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 10, 2003  In addition, the 68-page complaint adds some new details to its allegations that senior executives have known for years that Medco employees had been improperly destroying prescriptions. In May 1998, the complaint says, a number of "concerned pharmacists" at the company's Tampa, Fla., facility approached the then-president of Medco, Richard Clark, to complain about the canceling of prescriptions. The complaint says that Mr. Clark assigned Mr. [Robert J. Blyskal] to investigate the claims, but that Mr. Blyskal didn't properly do so. Mr. Blyskal couldn't be reached for comment.  Complications Continue A year-long look at Medco's legal troubles. Dec. 9, 2002: Merck and its pharmacy-benefits subsidiary, Medco Health,agree to pay $42.5 million to settle litigation alleging they overchargedclients. The settlement seeks to put behind them five years of accusationsthat Medco improperly promoted higher-priced Merck pharmaceuticals ratherthan seeking the best price for them on prescription drugs. March 18, 2003: A consumer group and a union representing governmentworkers sue Medco and three other pharmacy-benefits managers, alleging"secret dealings" with drug companies that have forced consumers and publicemployees to pay more for prescription drugs. April 22: Merck says it will split off Medco completely because of what itsays is an unfavorable initial public offering market. June 23: The Justice Department joins a lawsuit that alleges Medco adoptedan "aggressive profits-before-patients policy." Sept. 29: The Justice Department charges Medco with fraud, falsifyingrecords and making false statements in a sweeping complaint filed in U.S.District Court in Philadelphia. Dec. 9: The Justice Department adds two former Medco employees to its fraudlawsuit and accuses the company of paying kickbacks to health plans in returnfor doing business with the government.   
