20031202
 Genetic Testing Hits the Doctor's Office; New Screens Can Predict Odds Of Getting 1,004 Diseases; Getting Pre-Emptive Surgery   By Waldholz, Michael, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 3, 2003  ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE: In the past few years researchers have found that about 60% of people who inherit a particular version of a gene called APOe are likely to develop Alzheimer's disease by age 70. But scientists say the test, which can be performed at most any clinical laboratory that specializes in examining DNA extracted from a cell, can't tell if gene carriers will develop Alzheimer's for sure -- or when the disease might arise.  There is no known prevention for Alzheimer's so it isn't clear what people can do with the information. Still, many people who have one or more family member with the disease are requesting the test, says Susan LaRusse, a genetic counseling researcher at New York's Columbia University. Robert C. Green, an Alzheimer's disease researcher at Boston University, argues against use of the test for now since "safety and efficacy of disclosing this information has not been proven." More information about the test or studies examining an inherited risk of Alzheimer's is available from the Alzheimer's Association at www.alz.org.  Predicting Risk Predictive tests for some common diseases Disease: Alzheimer's Disease Test: Disease is inherited in 25% of cases. Several genes being tested inresearch setting for families with two or more siblings affected. Treatment: None. Research is testing experimental therapies. Disease: Breast and Ovarian Cancer Test: 5% of cases inherited. Test detects high lifetime risk for women withcancer and/or family history. Treatment: Frequent breast exams, and surgical removal of breasts andovaries if recommended. Disease: Colon Cancer Test: In research centers for families with history of inherited form ofdisease. Treatment: Frequent colon exams; surgical removal of pre-cancerous tissue. Disease: Diabetes Test: Can predict high risk for children in families with Type 1 diabetes. Treatment: None. Research is testing experimental therapies. Disease: Preimplantation Test: Potential birth defects in embryos prior to implantation into womb;for families at high risk only. Treatment: Affected embryos aren't implanted.   
