20011005
 Scope of Counterterrorism Chief's Power Is Starting to Cause Rifts   By By Sarah Lueck and Yochi J. Dreazen, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 5, 2001  Together, the controversies are adding to the already difficult tasks awaiting Mr. Ridge as he begins his new job. Mr. Ridge will have to coordinate the terrorism-related efforts of nearly 50 federal entities, but it isn't clear how much influence he will have over them. He must oversee efforts to prevent and anticipate terrorism, but it hasn't been established how much access he will have to intelligence from the Federal Bureau of Investigation or Central Intelligence Agency. And some lawmakers wonder how Mr. Ridge will balance the two-pronged task of preventing terrorist attacks while simultaneously preparing health and law-enforcement officials to adequately respond if one occurs. Already, a number of lawmakers are readying bills that would strengthen Mr. [Tom Ridge]'s powers.  Still, powerful lawmakers from both parties fear Mr. Ridge won't be handed the authority to accomplish his mission. They criticize the White House for deciding to create the office by executive order instead of through legislation that would formally give Mr. Ridge and his successors budgetary authority over parts of every federal agency involved in counterterrorism and emergency response. And they accuse the White House of trying to win public-relations points by adopting one of the recommendations of a recent blue-chip commission on counterterrorism, which urged the creation of a homeland-security czar, without actually giving the office the broad powers the report recommended.  Other pivotal players in the administration's counterterrorism efforts include former White House counterterrorism czar Richard A. Clarke, who will oversee cyberspace security, and retired Army Gen. Wayne Downing, who will coordinate military and intelligence resources and become Mr. [Bush]'s chief antiterrorism adviser. Both men will have to communicate with Mr. Ridge about their efforts, but the mechanism for those discussions is still unclear, says Frank Cilluffo, senior policy analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.   
