20030105
 News From the Frontline   By By Walter Isaacson and Eason Jordan, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 6, 2003  This sometimes led the U.S. government, both during the 1991 Gulf War and the Afghan conflict a year ago, to try to confine coverage to centralized briefings and carefully-corralled pool reporters. As a result, much went unreported. This has not always served the military well. "We made a huge mistake trying to restrict press coverage in the first Gulf War because of our Vietnam mentality," says Gen. Wesley Clark, now a CNN military analyst. "We had a First Armored Division tank battle that was just incredible, perhaps the biggest armored battle ever, but not a single image was reported or documented for history by the press. I hope we don't make that mistake again."  Later in the Afghan conflict, the military began to appreciate more fully the value, and the practicality, of allowing coverage. When Operation Anaconda was launched in the Shah-e-kot Valley last March, CNN's Martin Savidge was secretly briefed in advance and then embedded with U.S. forces so that he and a cameraman could cover it as pool reporters servicing all the networks. Operational security was not compromised, and both public and military benefited from a full, independent chronicle of what was the largest U.S. ground operation in a decade.  As the military prepares for a possible new engagement in Iraq, it is experimenting with ways to embed reporters with troops, and American correspondents in Kuwait have already gone on training exercises with tank units. Victoria Clarke, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, has raised the possibility that coverage decisions might be left mainly to the commanders in the field, an approach these officers heartily support. They are, after all, the ones who best know the security risks involved, the coverage rules that make the most sense for each mission, and the benefits that could come from allowing the public to see how their troops performed. They are proud of these men and women, know them to be professional and honorable, and want their exploits to be documented and told. Indeed, they made it very clear to us, when we visited the Camp Doha Army base in Kuwait and the aircraft carrier Constellation in the Gulf, that they believe that the best representatives to convey America's intentions and capabilities are the sailors and soldiers in the field.   
