19931109
 Gore Puts Perot On the Defensive In Nafta Debate --- Vice President Questions Billionaire's Credibility, Assails His `Social' Tariff   By By Bob Davis and Michael K. Frisby, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 10, 1993  In a debate on CNN's "Larry King Live," Mr. Gore portrayed Nafta as an opportunity for the U.S. to vastly expand in a neighboring market and make trade relations with Mexico "even-steven." The vice president repeatedly hit at Mr. Perot's credibility and tried to paint him as the modern-day equivalent of Sen. Reed Smoot and Rep. Willis Hawley, whose 1930 tariff increase is seen by economists as deepening the Great Depression. Mr. Gore even gave the Texan a framed photo of the two lawmakers and told Mr. Perot he "could put it on your wall." Mr. Perot coldly accepted the photo and placed it face down next to him.  Mr. Gore's efforts were clearly part of a White House strategy to discredit Nafta opponents by identifying them with Mr. Perot, whose popularity has been slipping in the polls. While Mr. Gore successfully carried through those tactics in last night's debate, it's unclear whether the debate will change any minds before the House votes on Nafta next Wednesday. Undecided lawmakers have been under heavy pressure in their districts from labor unions, Mr. Perot's United We Stand America, and other groups. The White House hopes that by taking on Mr. Perot, they can take the heat off the lawmakers.  Little of the debate turned on the eye-glazing details of Nafta, which covers 1,200 pages and would generally liberalize trade between Mexico, the U.S. and Canada over 15 years. Mr. Perot criticized the trade pact by attacking Mexico's poverty and its one-party system, and implying that Nafta would make it worse. Mr. Gore hammered at the Texas billionaire for his family business's tax-free zone outside the Alliance Airport in Texas, which has been promoted as a gateway to Mexico, and said that Mr. Perot would make a profit whether Nafta passed or not. The vice president, holding up a prospectus for the project that bore a picture of Mr. Perot, said it claimed that the project would be an "ideal national distribution center for products coming out of Mexico."   
