19981204
 Review / Books: Of Blizzards, Breasts And Art; `Tis the Season For Coffee-Table Books --- We Plow Through Scores of Them To Find the Best Gifts; Who Wouldn't Like `Tahiti Tattoos'?   By By Elizabeth Bukowski, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 4, 1998  Several of the year's most handsome books evoke those historical epochs when it was generally agreed that the principal purpose of art was to glorify God, or the gods. The gift I'd give this holiday season is "Sienese Painting," by Giulietta Chelazzi Dini, Alessandro Angelini and Bernardina Sani (Abrams, 440 pages, $95), partly because of my own abiding fondness for its subject, partly for the beauty of its reproductions and design, and partly for its thoughtful assessment of the painting that emerged from this important Tuscan cultural center. The scope of the book ranges from the 14th-century works of Duccio and Simone Martini to the heartfelt depictions of miracles from 15th-century artists such as Sasetta and the Osservanza master, and ending with the somewhat more obscure 17th-century practitioners of the Baroque.  A collection of the work of "Cimabue" (Abbeville, 303 pages, $125), who exerted a formative influence on the early Sienese, is not only beautiful but poignant, since so many of the creations of this 13th-century painter, who was also Giotto's teacher, have been destroyed or damaged by natural disaster -- by the 1966 flood that ravaged Florence's Church of Santa Croce and, more recently, by the earthquake that struck Assisi, where Cimabue decorated the vault of the Upper Basilica of San Francesco. Luciano Bellosi's text expends perhaps too much energy arguing his subject's importance -- a case made eloquently enough by the photographs of Cimabue's brilliant mosaics in the Baptistry, in Florence.  The Islamic world notoriously impinged on Spain for centuries, leaving behind an architectural style epitomized by the Alhambra palace above Granada. But even more far-reaching, perhaps, were the decorative glazed tiles known by the Arab loan word azulejo that continued to be made and painted long after the reconquest. Manuel I of Portugal (1495-1521) bought into the tile craze after a trip to Spain exactly 500 years ago and covered the walls of his palace at Sintra, outside Lisbon. After that, Portugal quickly became the most important tile center in the world, and it still contends for that title today. From house facades in the stately Lisbon neighborhood of Lapa to the allegorical tile murals at the mini-Versailles of Queluz, tiles are a constant feature of the design of Portuguese life. "Portuguese Decorative Tiles: Azulejos" (Abbeville, 215 pages, $55), by Rioletta Sabo et al., is a fine if far from exhaustive survey of this ongoing national affair.   
