20051004
 Common Sense: If Fuel Prices Fall, Transport Stocks Could Zoom Ahead   By Stewart, James B, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 5, 2005  With oil prices still at about $63 a barrel, these are obviously highly contrarian suggestions. I haven't yet acted on them, and I don't see any need to rush. But it's important to be prepared. When there's a real crack in oil prices -- when they dip below $60, for example -- I'll have my shopping list ready.  Two of my favorites in the transport sector are United Parcel Service and FedEx, both near the low end of their trading ranges, even though FedEx shares jumped 7% after it reported strong earnings in late September. Both companies are relatively insulated from high fuel prices because they pass those charges onto customers in the form of fuel surcharges. But eventually such surcharges take a toll, since they increase shipping costs and cause clients to curb their shipments. The two companies have also been waging a fierce pricing war, as UPS defends its traditional turf -- ground transport -- from FedEx's invasion, backed by its acquisition of Kinko's, which instantly gave it vastly more outposts on the ground. The result has been widespread investor disillusionment with these otherwise well-run companies. UPS is close to its 52-week low of $66.  With oil prices still at about $63 a barrel, these are obviously highly contrarian suggestions. I haven't yet acted on them, and I don't see any need to rush. But it's important to be prepared. When there's a real crack in oil prices -- when they dip below $60, for example -- I'll have my shopping list ready.  Two of my favorites in the transport sector are United Parcel Service and FedEx, both near the low end of their trading ranges, even though FedEx shares jumped 7% after it reported strong earnings in late September. Both companies are relatively insulated from high fuel prices because they pass those charges onto customers in the form of fuel surcharges. But eventually such surcharges take a toll, since they increase shipping costs and cause clients to curb their shipments. The two companies have also been waging a fierce pricing war, as UPS defends its traditional turf -- ground transport -- from FedEx's invasion, backed by its acquisition of Kinko's, which instantly gave it vastly more outposts on the ground. The result has been widespread investor disillusionment with these otherwise well-run companies. UPS is close to its 52-week low of $66.   
