20041209
 Americas: Mexico City's Populist 'Wannabe' Has a 'Never-wuz' Past   By O'Grady, Mary Anastasia, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 10, 2004  Mr. [Vicente Fox]'s decision rightly elevates Mexico's personal-security crisis as a political issue deserving the attention of elected officials. Controlling crime, as this column noted in July when 250,000 Mexico City residents marched to protest rampant kidnapping, requires effective public policies. Seriously reversing the steady deterioration in personal safety over the past few decades would seem to require, for starters, a shake-up of the law-enforcement bureaucracy. Yet, Mr. [Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador]'s response to the Fox firings has been to circle the wagons and to accuse the president of a political conspiracy to undermine him.  Failing to confront the underpinnings of street crime is but one shortfall. Equally troubling hallmarks of this traditional politician are corruption scandals and the lack of transparency. Earlier this year a videotape of the city's chief of finance gambling at a high- stakes table in Las Vegas raised questions about the inexplicable wealth of a civil servant in the "socially conscious" government of Mr. Lopez Obrador. Shortly thereafter another tape emerged, showing Mr. Lopez Obrador's former campaign manager, a PRD leader in the city legislature, taking $45,000 in bills from an Argentine construction magnate, stuffing some into a briefcase and the excess into his pockets.  While he seems to fancy himself as a slayer of the establishment, the mayor's my-way-or-the-highway attitude makes him more like an old authoritarian prista than a modern democrat. Two high-profile property-rights cases where he ignored court orders illustrate the point. In one, he flatly rejected a Supreme Court ruling that a parcel of land had been illegally expropriated by a former city government and that compensation was due the plaintiff. It is true there was a debate about whether the case was adjudicated properly. But the legal and business communities were horrified at his unilateral refusal to accept the court's decision on the grounds that it was socially unjust and that the money could be better used to help the poor.   
