20040105
 Career Journal: Homespun Strategist; Business Elite Finds Comfort, Inspiration in the Bestsellers And Speeches of Jim Collins   By Anders, George, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 6, 2004  Yet Mr. [Jim Collins]'s stubbornness and quirky career just add to his appeal. "I was captivated by him," Mr. [John Hess] says. "He really gets you excited about your potential to achieve greatness." The Amerada Hess CEO has given copies of Mr. Collins's books to 150 of his company's top managers and has urged them to attend Mr. Collins's speeches -- a sign of the evangelical enthusiasm that is making "Good to Great" a much-envied blockbuster in business publishing.  "I remember going for a walk with Jim in downtown San Francisco one time," says William Lazier, a Stanford lecturer. "Jim was so busy talking that he nearly got run over by a bus while he was crossing the street. His wife and I had to grab him and pull him away from traffic. 'I told him: 'Jim, we don't want you to get hit.'  Hi-Liters, Please! It took six years for Jim Collins and his researchers to produce "Good to Great," but the book's best-known concepts (and their definitions) can be tucked onto a note card. LEVEL 5 LEADERSHIP: Productive people fit into five classes; at the very top are self-effacing bosses with fierce resolve. FIRST WHO . . . THEN WHAT: Any business overhaul needs to start with smart hiring and staff development, or "getting the right people on the bus." THE THREE CIRCLES OF SUCCESS: Aim to be the best in the world at something. Pick an area that you're passionate about. Look for handsome economic payoffs. THE HEDGEHOG CONCEPT: Smart companies emulate the proverbial Greek hedgehog, becoming very good at one thing in a world full of dilettantes. THE FLYWHEEL: Great companies keep pushing toward sturdy goals, knowing that arduous early efforts may yield only tiny payoffs. THE DOOM LOOP: Poorly run companies constantly change their focus, loudly announcing new initiatives that amount to nothing.   
