20070906
 Politics & Economics: Out of Iraq, Some Common Ground; Troop Drawdown Could Enable Democrats and Republicans to Claim Victory   By Neil King Jr. and Greg Jaffe, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 7, 2007  Gen. David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq, is expected to announce next week that although the "surge" of an additional 30,000 troops since the spring has produced little progress toward achieving national political reconciliation, it does seem to have reduced violence in Baghdad. Senior military officials say Gen. Petraeus will likely ask that the elevated troop levels be maintained at least through November or December, when the U.S. would begin slowly withdrawing the additional troops. As troop levels fall over the course of 2008 from the peak of 160,000, U.S. forces are likely to gradually shift to more of a training and advisory mission advocated by many moderate Democrats.  The latest date that the [Bush] administration can sustain the surge without extending troops beyond their current 15-month duty tours is April 2008. At that point, the Pentagon will have to begin pulling out one brigade a month for five months. For both political and military reasons, the actual drawdown is likely to begin sooner than April, say senior military officials. Every time the military pulls a unit from Iraq, it must redistribute U.S. forces to ensure that no area is left totally uncovered. Starting the drawdown sooner and proceeding more slowly gives U.S. commanders more time to manage the gaps that occur as troops are shifted around the battlefield.  Yet beyond the argument over whether the U.S. has seen real progress in Iraq there is growing conviction among moderates of both parties that the U.S. has little choice but to diminish its role there. White House officials say the drawdown next year could go further than the 25,000 to 30,000 "surge" troops whose 15-month tours are ending. If conditions continue to improve in certain areas and Iraqi troops begin to fill the breach, administration officials say the U.S. could reduce its troop presence in Iraq to as low as 115,000 by the fall of 2008. One senior administration official predicted that fewer than 100,000 troops might remain when the next president takes over in January 2009.   
