20041004
 Remember Seattle: Mixed Signals Are Bad for Trade   By Zoellick, Robert B, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 5, 2004  Mr. Kerry's vacillation on trade extends further. His campaign has signaled the abandonment of America's successful drive for Free Trade Agreements. The Bush administration has completed FTAs with 12 countries, is negotiating with 10 others, and is preparing for more. Together, these new deals amount to America's third largest export market. U.S. manufacturers forecast that our new FTA with Australia alone will boost U.S. manufacturing exports $2 billion a year. These cutting-edge agreements carry an importance beyond the size of newly opened markets, because they set high, enforceable standards in newer areas of importance to America -- such as services, intellectual property, transparency and anti-corruption, and e-commerce. U.S. FTAs are the only ones in the world that also include enforceable commitments on labor and environmental laws, combined with aid programs that help developing countries improve conditions cooperatively -- contradicting Mr. Kerry's excuse for jettisoning FTAs.  Mr. Kerry's attacks on "Benedict Arnold CEOs" who do business abroad suggest he either does not grasp the workings of the global economy or is being duplicitous to curry favor with economic isolationists. Foreign companies recognize the quality of American workers, and that is one of the reasons why so many have chosen to locate plants in our country. Would Mr. Kerry forgo the 6.4 million jobs in the U.S. created by CEOs of foreign companies? U.S. companies with operations overseas account for 58% of U.S. exports. America's services industries earn a more than $50 billion surplus by operating around the world. More open markets for trade and investment create opportunities by lowering costs, increasing productivity, adding to families' standard of living, connecting more businesses together, and enlarging America's influence. Attacks on business across borders and calls for raising barriers reflect a defeatism that would cripple America's vitality. President Bush is committed to creating the jobs that trade brings.   
