20060806
 No 'Alternative'   By Groopman, Jerome, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 7, 2006  This result was greeted without surprise by a colleague of mine who is a primary care physician. Many of her patients swear by the benefits of the supplement for their arthritis; and one of them, a woman in her 70s, never failed to press the physician to take it for her own aches and pains. When the doctor demurred, the patient eyed her with some disdain. "You doctors are so close-minded," she said. "You won't accept a treatment that comes from outside of your own world." One day, a package arrived at her office. It was a large container of glucosamine, which still sits in a cabinet, unopened. "Despite all my patients' testimonials, it didn't make sense," she told me. "Glucosamine is absorbed from the digestive tract and rapidly broken down in the body. How could this supplement survive digestion, travel through the circulation, deposit in worn-down joints, and rebuild cartilage?"  The patients I care for with cancer or AIDS take multiple prescription medications, and how these drugs interact with each other can be no simple matter; throw into the mix an herb of unclear composition and unknown metabolism, as well as unknown side effects, and there is a recipe for trouble. I witnessed this as the first group of pharmaceuticals against HIV were being tested during the late 1980s. There was a groundswell of demand among understandably desperate patients for alternatives to medicines like AZT that can have serious side effects and, as single agents, only modest benefit. One "natural" alternative was an extract from a Chinese cucumber termed compound Q. It was imported from Asia and taken by a number of desperate AIDS patients based on testimonials that it could eradicate HIV. The fact that the cucumber extract was used as an abortifacent in China seemed not to register, until several patients developed severe toxic reactions, including coma. Physicians and researchers who challenged compound Q were vilified as being ignorant, wed to the pharmaceutical-medical complex, or envious that a cure had arrived from outside of "mainstream" medicine.  The academic opponents were proven wrong -- because the fears of the gurus came true. The reason for this can largely be attributed to Stephen Straus, who directs the NCCAM. Dr. Straus is neither a naysayer nor a believer, but rather a scientist, meaning that he is agnostic about any particular therapy. Dr. Straus explained that the same rigorous metrics used to evaluate normal medicine are applied to the numerous unproven alternative treatments -- "the NIH way." The justification for spending federal funds is still hotly debated, as evidenced by an impassioned article in a recent issue of the journal Science, with a call for the Congress to re-examine the issue. But rigorous testing of popular alternative therapies is a matter of public health and informs proper medical practice. On the wall of Dr. Straus's office is a framed quote: "The plural of anecdotes is not evidence." A billion Chinese cannot be wrong, goes the old saw, but in fact they can and often are.   
