19991205
 World Watch   By Compiled by David I. Oyama, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 6, 1999  Advertisers and ad-agency representatives met with United News & Media and Carlton Communications to get reassurance from the United Kingdom broadcasters that their planned GBP 3.45 billion merger ($5.5 billion) won't lead to higher prices for air time or restrictions on advertising. The Institute of Practitioners in Advertising and the Incorporated Society of British Advertising are worried because the merger would create a company controlling about 60% of advertising revenue on the Independent Television Network, or ITV, Britain's largest commercial channel, and about 36% of total U.K. ad revenue. The ad industry also fears that a company with such clout might restrict advertising practices. ISBA represents U.K. advertisers; the Institute of Practitioners represents ad agencies. Both groups declined to comment on Friday's meeting.  Britain's Severn Trent said it will shed 1,100 jobs, or 9% of its work force, over three years and shift its focus from water to nonregulated businesses such as waste management. The announcement Friday came after the utility said first-half pretax profit fell 4.2% from a year earlier to GBP 169.1 million ($270.7 million). Revenue rose 12% to GBP 670.4 million. The job cuts will occur mostly in Britain. Under the U.K. water regulator's final industry ruling, Severn must cut prices by 14.1% before April, higher than the industry average of 12%, but Severn said Friday it won't appeal the ruling to the Competition Commission. Its chief executive said he didn't "see the point" of trying to fix Severn's problems by a merger, addressing talk of a bid by German utility RWE.  Deutsche Bank is looking for an industrial partner for ailing German construction company Philipp Holzmann, preferably a European firm outside Germany, said Holzmann's supervisory board chairman, Carl von Boehm-Bezing, according to a report Saturday in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper. Mr. Boehm-Bezing, who didn't name any possible partners for the builder, is also a management board member of Deutsche Bank, Holzmann's biggest creditor and holder of a 15% stake in the company.   
