20011206
 Review / Music: Digging the Roots of American Music   By By Taylor Holliday, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 7, 2001  For the real historical lowdown you have to buy the handsome book to the series separately, but the box is full of enticing tidbits like the timeline revealing an amazingly fertile five-year period, 1925-30, that saw the first recordings of country-blues fathers Blind Lemon Jefferson, Charley Patton and Son House; of country progenitors Jimmie Rodgers and the Carter Family; of accordionists Joe Falcon (Cajun) and Amede Ardoin (black Creole); and of Father of Gospel Thomas Dorsey. And that was all before musicologists John and Alan Lomax first took to the churches and prisons of the South to discover and record Leadbelly and other folk singers in the '30s. You hear their shared histories throughout this inspired collection, still evolving in Doyle Lawson's gospel bluegrass or in Mingo Saldivar's conjunto version of Johnny Cash's "Ring of Fire."  Conceived by Harry Belafonte in 1954, and based mostly on field recordings the Lomaxes deposited in the Library of Congress, the mammoth project was finally completed in 1971 -- then consigned to the vaults. Three decades later the history of black America in song, re-created in a New York studio by folk legends including Joe Williams, Sonny Terry, Brownie McGhee and Bessie Jones, as well as adult and children's choirs, finally reaches our ears. If the tribal songs and chants, prayer shouts and field hollers, ballads and spirituals sometimes sound a bit more Broadway than backfield, it's because Mr. Belafonte wanted to make it educational and accessible. And, for the most part, it is. While some of this music sounds foreign to our ears -- making the beautiful hardback book invaluable -- much of it sounds surprisingly familiar. Listen for the world-weariness of blues and jazz in plantation work songs, or the storytelling rhythms of rap in the songs of the chain gang, and you know whence they came.  By the time Alan Lomax rediscovered Son House in the early '40s, and especially by the time the British Invasion rockers re-rediscovered him in the '60s, he was an aging father of the Mississippi Delta blues. On the juke-joint scene a bit before Son House, however, was Charley Patton, the Delta blues' first big star, who never got a chance for a comeback, dying in 1934 at the age of 43. Now the obsessives at the small indie label Revenant have primed the primordial bluesman for a return to the limelight with "Screamin' and Hollerin' the Blues: The Worlds of Charley Patton" (seven CDs, $174).   
