20030702
 The Constitution's Philosopher-Poet   By Brookhiser, Richard, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 3, 2003  Morris's greatest contribution came at the very beginning, when he shrank the list of the states in the Committee of Detail's draft to "We the People of the United States." There was a practical reason for his terseness: some states were unlikely to ratify any time soon (Rhode Island had sent no delegates to the convention). But Morris was moved by conviction as well. He was one of the doughtiest nationalists at the convention. "Among the many provisions which had been urged," he complained at one point, he had seen none "for supporting the dignity and splendor of the American empire." By speaking in the name of the people of the nation, Morris subtly but momentously changed the focus of government. The keenest critics of the Constitution saw what he was doing: Patrick Henry would pounce on "that poor little thing -- the expression, 'We the people." Abraham Lincoln would embrace it: the Gettysburg Address begins by recalling the Declaration, "four score and seven years ago," but its concluding invocation of "government of the people, by the people, and for the people" echoes the Preamble.  Morris's work on the meat of the Constitution, its seven Articles, is a superb job of smoothing, organizing, and clipping unruly verbal vines. Anyone who has graded term papers or edited copy will appreciate his labor. One small simplification can stand for all the rest. An Article in the Committee of Detail's draft said: "The Government shall consist of supreme legislative, executive, and judicial powers." Morris struck this out, beginning his first three articles by announcing that "all legislative powers," "the executive power," and "the judicial power" shall be vested in a Congress, a president, and the courts. Morris's alteration pruned a needless statement. The accumulation of such changes over the entire Constitution makes for a document that is light and limber. As an old man, James Madison declared that "the finish given to the style and arrangement of the Constitution fairly belongs to the pen of Mr. Morris . . . A better choice could not have been made, as the performance of the task proved."   
