20040515
 Krispy Kreme Franchise Buybacks May Spur New Concerns   By Mark Maremont and Rick Brooks, The Wall Street Journal,  May 25, 2004  Krispy Kreme executives steadfastly defend the company's accounting. John Tate, chief operating officer, says outside auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP "signed off on every single journal entry as proper purchase accounting." Michael Phalen, Krispy Kreme's chief financial officer, says it was appropriate to recognize interest income from the Michigan deal because that was a "valid amount due to us." The interest payment by Dough-Re-Mi was unrelated to the acquisition, he says, even though it was made on the same day and Krispy Kreme deducted the interest owed from the final remittance to Dough-Re-Mi. As for the store-closing costs, Krispy Kreme says those were booked properly in accordance with standard purchase-accounting rules.  Krispy Kreme in 2002 bought out the interests of several company officers, at no profit to them, in an investment pool that owned a piece of seven franchisees. Mr. [Scott Livengood] also sold what he described as "my 3% in the same seven franchise operations" back to Krispy Kreme for the "original investment." While the company didn't acknowledge any wrongdoing, Mr. Livengood said in March 2002 that he hoped "these actions will affirm the trust and confidence that investors have placed in Krispy Kreme."  Mr. Livengood and Krispy Kreme didn't tell investors that the 3% stakes hadn't been his entire investment. He actually held 6% stakes until reaching a separation agreement with his then-wife, Adrienne, in August 2001, when she "got half of whatever I had," Mr. Livengood says. They divorced in June 2002. According to a company spokeswoman, a 10k filed in May 2002 that reported Mr. Livengood had only "3% investments" in the franchises as of January 2001 "was incorrect," adding that "whoever proofed that, missed it." She also noted that Krispy Kreme doesn't plan to correct the error in a revised filing because "it's not a material issue."   
