19990520
 Books: Summer Reading   By By Felicia Paik, The Wall Street Journal,  May 21, 1999  Weekend Journal's track record for predicting the most-ballyhooed books of the summer is pretty good. In our inaugural cheat sheet last year, we featured Helen Fielding's "Bridget Jones's Diary," which went on to become a major cultural phenomenon and is currently being developed as a movie. Other books we picked, such as Wally Lamb's "I Know This Much Is True" and Nicholas Sparks's "Message in a Bottle" spent months on The Wall Street Journal's bestseller list. A few apparently stumbled, however, such as Daniel Menaker's critically well-received "The Treatment," and Leon Litwack's "Trouble in Mind: Black Southerners in the age of Jim Crow," which sold just 9,000 copies.  The Buzz: The names dropped in the acknowledgments alone -- ex-children's TV guru Geraldine Laybourne, omnipresent market analyst and TheStreet.com co-founder James Cramer, and PR whiz Leslee Dart -- speak volumes. As one of the co-founders of Spy magazine and a staff writer for the New Yorker magazine, the author is just the sort of hyperconnected power player he depicts in this widely praised novel. Bootleg copies of the galleys have been must-reads for hip lit types for weeks. As our reviewer wrote last week: "Can a novel that refers to Prada, Ferragamo and Manolo Blahnik be admitted (without at least a period of quarantine) into the nation of literature?... Yes."  The Buzz: By the bucketfuls, prompted by a $275,000 advance the author got for this collection of short stories. Partial credit goes to Francis Ford Coppola, who thought there needed to be a retort to "The Rules" -- the book on how to catch a man -- and in 1997 commissioned the single, 38-year-old Ms. Bank to write the title story for his magazine, Zoetrope. She just finished writing a screenplay for Mr. Coppola. The author also owes a debt to her agent, Molly Friedrich, who orchestrated an estrogen-fueled auction by inviting only female editors and publishers.   
