19940603
 Fast-Moving Theo Lieven Fine-Tunes German PC Firm as Market Changes   By By Richard L. Hudson, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 3, 1994  No problem: He owns them, after all. Mr. Lieven is president and co-founder of Germany's biggest personal-computer company, Vobis Microcomputer AG. With nationwide marketing and a chain of folksy local shops, Vobis has leapt into the big leagues of German business as a discount king (slogan: "They must be crazy!") It held 13.7% of the German PC market in the first quarter this year, edging out both Compaq Computer Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. Its success has spawned many clones; even IBM took note, briefly opening a Vobis-like PC shop in nearby Aachen. "They've basically changed the whole picture of the German PC market," says Lisa Schelhowe, a PC-industry analyst at London-based Context Ltd.  The dilemma is a classic in business -- and so far, even some of his competitors say, Mr. Lieven is handling it better than most others in his situation. Andreas Barth, head of Compaq's European operations, is blunt about Mr. Lieven's need "to change the business model." He says, "They're coming under tremendous price pressure and margin pressure, and I think Vobis has to rethink."  A few years ago, nobody could have foreseen this. Then, there were two kinds of PCs: pricey brand-name machines and cheap buyer-beware "clones." Vobis managed to get the best of both worlds: It kept its prices down with low-cost PC assembly, yet established a good reputation with German consumers by skillful marketing aimed at first-time buyers. Gradually, Mr. Lieven and his partner, Rainer Fraling, sold 65% of Vobis to Kaufhof Holding AG, one of Germany's biggest retailers. Their idea was that a big, well-run company such as Kaufhof could provide the financing, extra retail outlets and disciplined back-office management they thought they needed for Vobis to become really big. By 1992, nearly one in six PCs sold in Germany bore Vobis's Highscreen brand.   
