20020705
 Tastings: Tackling a Sticky Problem --- How to Remove Wine Labels Without Any Fraying -- Of Them, or Your Nerves   By By Dorothy J. Gaiter and John Brecher, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 5, 2002  Over the years, various people have given us all sorts of advice on removing labels. Ms. [Alison Holmes], for instance, says: "I have taken wine labels off bottles all over Europe at the dinner table by soaking a Kleenex and laying it over the label. By the end of the meal, you can peel it off." She has had place mats made with one label each "placed dramatically in the center." Other readers have suggested various glue removers and such. But many home remedies have downsides, too. At one of our book signings, someone made a suggestion -- and by the time we got back to the office, we had an e-mail from someone else at the event saying, "Don't do it! It will destroy the label!"  Even Ms. Holmes's simple solution won't work on many labels because there is a strong national character to wine-label glue. Almost 25 years of label-removing experience tells us that the easiest labels to remove are from Burgundy and Germany and the hardest are from Australia. American labels run the gamut. We're not the only ones who have noticed this. Beth Harrison of New York City wrote us: "My husband and I like to keep wine labels from bottles we've loved -- and hated -- along with our tasting notes. When soaking the bottles to remove the labels, I've noticed that American wine labels are very difficult to remove -- I often need to use a razor blade and end up destroying the label anyway. Oddly, though, European labels come off like a dream -- quickly and cleanly and all in one piece. What gives? Why is American glue so, well, sticky?"  Take the empty bottles, with their corks removed, and immerse them in the sink. After the bottles have been in for a while, some labels might float right off. This always makes our heart skip a beat. If the label hasn't floated off, lift and empty the bottle very carefully, place it on a towel, and try to get your fingernail under a corner of the label. At that point, it might lift right off. When you get a label off, lay it flat on the plastic wrap.   
