20050920
 Iraq's People Need American Troops   By Talabani, Jalal, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 21, 2005  Inevitably, there have been stresses and strains. In Iraq these have been amplified by the terrorism of the remnants of the fascist Baathist dictatorship and our interfering neighbors. To contain these tensions, and to defend our young democracy, requires the support of American and other troops. Foreign forces are needed to train and equip the new Iraqi armed forces and to give Iraq its own counterterrorism capability. Only the United States and its closest allies are able to provide such assistance.  American forces are in Iraq at the invitation of the democratically elected government of Iraq, and with the backing of a United Nations Security Council resolution. Your soldiers are in my country because of your commitment to democracy. Moreover, during my visit to Washington, Mr. Bush reaffirmed the United States' complete support for the Iraqi political process toward sustainable democracy, and for the fight to defeat fascist and jihadist terrorism in Iraq.  Americans should be proud of what its soldiers have achieved. The presence of foreign forces has prevented a renewed civil war in Iraq -- renewed because there has already been a civil war in Iraq. For 35 years, [Saddam] and his Baath Party made war on the Iraqi people. The liberation of Iraq ended that civil war.  Inevitably, there have been stresses and strains. In Iraq these have been amplified by the terrorism of the remnants of the fascist Baathist dictatorship and our interfering neighbors. To contain these tensions, and to defend our young democracy, requires the support of American and other troops. Foreign forces are needed to train and equip the new Iraqi armed forces and to give Iraq its own counterterrorism capability. Only the United States and its closest allies are able to provide such assistance.  American forces are in Iraq at the invitation of the democratically elected government of Iraq, and with the backing of a United Nations Security Council resolution. Your soldiers are in my country because of your commitment to democracy. Moreover, during my visit to Washington, Mr. Bush reaffirmed the United States' complete support for the Iraqi political process toward sustainable democracy, and for the fight to defeat fascist and jihadist terrorism in Iraq.  Americans should be proud of what its soldiers have achieved. The presence of foreign forces has prevented a renewed civil war in Iraq -- renewed because there has already been a civil war in Iraq. For 35 years, [Saddam] and his Baath Party made war on the Iraqi people. The liberation of Iraq ended that civil war.   
