20060205
 The Boehner Banner?   By Armey, Dick, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 6, 2006  More than anything, Rep. [John Boehner]'s success represents the intent of Republican members of the House to repair their credentials as reformers with the American people. His victory was made possible because he was able to find common purpose with John Shadegg, Jeff Flake, Mike Pence and the rest of the Young Turks of the party eager to regain what some are calling the Spirit of '94. As such, interpret Rep. Boehner's victory as a Republican Conference mandate to restore the party of limited, honest government and big reform ideas that move money and power out of Washington.  1. Spending Restraint. Any serious effort to restore ethics and integrity to the House must start with cleaning up the appropriations process. Over the past five years the number of earmarks has gone up seven-fold -- from around 2,000 to 14,000 in 2005 -- while the number of lobbying entities doubled during the same time. Rep. Boehner made his intentions clear in this regard. A good start would bring Rep. Flake's earmark reform legislation to the House floor. Also, President Bush asked for enhanced recision authority in his State of the Union address, and Congress should give it to him. Jeb Hensarling, another reformer, has a comprehensive budget process reform package that should have the support of the new leadership. In terms of spending restrain, the recent deficit reduction vote was an important signal, but the House must do more. In the long run, reforming entitlements like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, which cost over $3 billion a day last year and are expected continue to grow around 8% a year, is essential to real spending control.  No doubt, the new majority leader arrives at a difficult time, when the Democrat agenda is to simply cheer the temporary failure of Social Security reform, as Hillary Clinton and her colleagues did during the State of the Union. Rep. Boehner's Democrat counterpart was recently quoted gloating about House Democrats ability to stonewall. "[They said] 'you can't beat something with nothing.' And we said, 'yes we can," she boasted. But there are serious legislators in both parties, who put policy first. Working with the minority has been neglected in the past couple of years. The new majority leader needs to operate with a process that brings Democrats to the table without compromising our principles. And by keeping the process open, it forces Democrats to offer alternatives and to debate us on policy grounds. We should not shy away from supporting big Republican ideas. They are, in the end, the real purpose of our majority.   
