20020905
 World Watch   By Compiled by David I. Oyama, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 6, 2002  The French government is preparing to help financially restructure France Telecom, and a rescue plan could emerge as early as the next few weeks, people familiar with the situation said. Although no final decision regarding a financial restructuring has been made and French budget constraints may yet prove to be an obstacle, the government's advisers are weighing various options, including a sale of shares in the company, convertible bonds or a mix of financial instruments, the same people said. The government, which holds a 55% stake in the debt-burdened operator, is evaluating European Union regulations on state aid as it weighs its options. Paris plans to participate in any capital injection to maintain the government's stake at the same level, the people said. A France Telecom spokeswoman declined to comment. A Finance Ministry spokesman couldn't be reached.  The International Monetary Fund gave Argentina an additional year to make a $2.8 billion repayment on money borrowed from the multilateral lender. Argentina is also seeking new loans to help its economy to recover from a prolonged recession and banking crisis. The IMF's managing director, Horst Kohler, said it is ready to provide a support package once agreement on economic reforms can be reached with the Argentine government. He didn't provide any timetable for when the talks might be wrapped up. But Argentine officials said Finance Secretary Guillermo Nielsen would travel to Washington next week for talks. U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill on Wednesday blamed the drawn-out negotiations over an IMF aid package on an inability of Argentine authorities to come up with a credible economic program, a comment Argentine officials rejected. The U.S. endorsed a $30 billion loan package for Brazil last month, saying that country had pursued credible economic policies. The IMF's executive board is expected today to give final approval for the new loans to Brazil.  The Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency said a plan to merge Bank Bali with four small local banks will cost about 4.6 trillion rupiah ($518.6 million). The move, which IBRA said it hopes to complete this month, would make midsize Bank Bali one of Indonesia's 10 largest banks by assets. But IBRA officials said more than half of the capital injection will come from additional asset sales this year. IBRA plans to merge Bank Bali with Bank Universal, Bank Prima Express, Bank Artamedia and Bank Patriot. IBRA will completely own the enlarged Bank Bali. The merged bank will have about 7,000 employees after about 950 jobs are cut at the five banks.   
