19910203
 On the Battlefield, Pep Talks Take On A Sensitive Tone --- Patton-Style Bluster Is Out; Officers Now Confront Fear and Chaos of War   By By Andy Pasztor, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 4, 1991  The men of Bravo Company are huddled in the barren, wind-swept desert with their rifles at their sides and their gas masks clipped to their belts. In the chill twilight, Capt. Keith George -- like commanders in wars throughout the ages -- steps forward to speak to his troops and prepare them for battle.  This is a far cry from wars past, when gung-ho commanders were less likely to indulge in introspection. "Dammit, you'll never get the Purple Heart hiding in a foxhole," Capt. Henry P. Crowe is said to have yelled to his troops as they prepared for combat at Guadalcanal. Through the prism of Hollywood, the battlefield pep talk has often been even more one dimensional. In the movie "Patton," Gen. George Patton assures his troops they will revel in the "sting of battle." "Now, some of you boys, I know, are wondering whether or not you'll chicken out under fire," he says. "Don't worry about it."  The strategy for preparing the troops in this war is decidedly different, and much more akin to group therapy. "The whole idea is to acknowledge soldiers' fears and find a way to deal with them," says Col. Bill Nash, the brigade commander Capt. George reports to. Pentagon officials say they are now encouraging field officers to talk with their troops about the tactics and dangers of battle, rather than just give rousing speeches. They say the discussions occur several times a month, though there isn't any single technique; the sessions tend to vary from camp to camp, and reflect the personality of the officer in charge. Of course, old ways die hard and the new, more sensitive approach isn't embraced by all commanders in the field. Still, "the good officers, the ones who care about their men, consider the meetings very important," says Col. Nash, a decorated veteran of Vietnam.   
