20030605
 Men in the News: Amid Turmoil, Top Editors Resign At New York Times --- For Raines, Reporters' Lapses Helped Stoke Friction Over Management Style --- `An Endemic Cultural Issue'   By By Matthew Rose and Laurie P. Cohen, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 6, 2003  Mr. [Howell Raines]'s activism included picking and assigning stories for the front page very different from the Times's usual serious fare. Both editors and reporters alike were reluctant to report back that the story wasn't correct or interesting, staffers say. One staffer dubbed Mr. Raines's interest in pop culture as "charge of the lite brigade." Two reporters spent five days reporting Mr. Raines's contention that Britney Spears's career was over without feeling confident they could prove his hypothesis, according to a person involved with the process. The resulting story ran on the front page on Oct. 6 headlined, "Schoolyard Superstar Aims for a Second Act, as an Adult."  One beneficiary of Mr. Raines's support was the paper's chief correspondent, Patrick Tyler. The Times hired him in 1990 at Mr. Raines's recommendation, and when Mr. Raines became editor he gave Mr. Tyler choice assignments. Recently, his stories have drawn some high-profile corrections. An Aug. 16, 2002, story, which Mr. Tyler wrote with Todd Purdum, said many senior Republicans, including Henry Kissinger, opposed a war in Iraq. Mr. Kissinger hadn't said that. Mr. Tyler says the story should have elaborated Dr. Kissinger's position further and that he agreed with the correction that appeared in the paper.  In the wake of the [Blair] scandal, criticism of Mr. Raines by Times staffers began to burst into the open. In a meeting in late May of more than 25 top editors, Mr. Raines promised to return the power for news coverage, editing and staffing to his underlings. "I've heard this before," said Washington bureau chief Ms. [Jill Abramson], via speaker phone, noting it was the "second or third iteration" of Mr. Raines's vow to "re-empower desk editors," according to people listening in.   
