20011115
 Hollywood Journal: Entertaining Your Questions --- We Provide Some Answers About the Movie Business; `Harry' Without the Kids   By By Tom King, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 23, 2001  A. They almost always do it for free, says Cheryl Boone Isaacs, who heads a new division at Hollywood's Seiniger Advertising that develops DVDs. It's the extras, she notes, that help drive sales of DVDs as opposed to less-expensive videos (The new "Planet of the Apes" DVD, for example, has 13 hours of viewing). Reader Mitch Levin, of Chicago, also wondered if actors and directors enjoy doing them: Yes, says Ms. Boone Isaacs, noting that DVDs give filmmakers an opportunity they wouldn't otherwise have to talk -- at length -- about their movie.  A. Good question from reader Kevin Hung, of Cupertino, Calif. It's mostly an issue of distribution: Because there are so many more sales outlets, getting new videos and CDs to stores on the same day isn't as easy as getting new movies to theaters. As a result, studios target delivery to stores on Tuesdays to ensure that the new titles are up and displayed in time for the weekend, when their biggest sales are charted. In addition, studios picked Tuesdays to give retailers a mid-week boost. In a move most felt was designed to steal some of Disney's thunder, DreamWorks released "Shrek" on DVD and video on the same Friday that "Monsters, Inc." hit theaters. But the majority of films -- like "The Grinch" and "Planet of the Apes," which came out this week -- hit video stores on Tuesdays.  A. The stock market -- even with all of its wild gyrations. Movies and Broadway are terrible places for individuals to invest, because the duds in both mediums far outnumber the hits. It's often surprising which movies make money and which ones don't. The Halloween flick, "Thirteen Ghosts" and the Kevin Spacey film "K-Pax" opened the same day last month, for example, but "Ghosts" may be the more profitable -- even though "K-Pax" had a slightly higher box-office gross. That's because "Ghosts" cost only $22 million, while "K-Pax" cost nearly $50 million. In fact, the only reason the studios stay in business is because they have libraries of old hits that continue to spew profits, allowing them to lose money on countless new films as they hunt for the next "Casablanca."   
