20011102
 Taste: Giving Till It Hurts --- Is there such a thing as too much generosity?   By By Mark Lasswell, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 2, 2001  No other calamity has claimed so many lives or stirred so much charity. Part of the reason for the huge response, aside from the enormity of the attacks themselves, was the vividness of them: Those mind-boggling TV images, endlessly repeated, had an instigating effect. The bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City in 1995, which killed 168 people, prompted $45 million in contributions; the relief effort in Southern Florida and Louisiana after Hurricane Andrew, which killed 54 people and caused approximately $26 billion in damage in 1992, attracted $104 million in donations. The Sept. 11 giving had the quality of an avalanche, with the first rush of dollars committed to the relief effort triggering ever more massive outlays from the public.  "A much overlooked element of human behavior is the herd effect, which is very powerful in almost every domain, but here too," says Robert H. Frank, author of "Passion Within Reason: The Strategic Role of the Emotions" (1988) and co-author, with Philip J. Cook, of "The Winner-Take-All Society" (1995). Herd behavior can overwhelm the site where it occurs, whether it's a selling panic that triggers a stock-exchange shutdown or a stampede of soccer fans that suffocates victims in its crush. For once, the energy of a large group's behavior has been channeled to good ends. But with no less daunting effect on the venue meant to contain it.  The first hint of them came within days of the attacks, at the organization's Disaster Operations Center in Falls Church, Va. Two longtime employees in crucial roles, the center's manager, Anne Miller, and the manager of technical support, Elizabeth McNulty, were dismissed by Bernadine Healy, the president of the American Red Cross, who, according to the Chronicle of Philanthropy, explained the firings to the women's stunned colleagues by saying: "Welcome to corporate America." On Oct. 26, Dr. Healy herself was forced out, after having given America a refresher course not in unsentimental corporate decision-making but in bureaucracy run amok.   
