20030409
 As Saddam Hussein's Regime in Iraq Disintegrates, Bush Faces Critical Choices Over U.S. Role in World --- After War, America Must Decide What Kind of Power to Be --- It Could Rebuild Alone, or Give Alienated Allies a Role; What of Iran, North Korea? --- The Precedent of Pre-Emption   By By Carla Anne Robbins and Neil King Jr., The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 10, 2003  The failure so far to turn up chemical or biological weapons may seem a minor point while Iraqis are cheering Mr. [Saddam Hussein]'s fall. But it could become a serious problem for U.S. credibility if the war's aftermath turns difficult. The need to disarm Iraq of such weapons -- especially before they could be passed on to terrorists -- was Mr. [Bush]'s justification for going to war. U.S. officials say they have no doubt that large stockpiles will be found once the U.S. is in full control of the country.  The most immediate postwar task will be to erect some Iraqi interim authority to advise U.S. administrators and take on more responsibility with time. It isn't clear how those interim leaders will be chosen: by the U.S. alone or in some kind of consultation with the U.N. Nor is it clear how much of a role will be given to Iraqi exiles -- some of them favorites of the Bush administration -- and how much will go to those who remained in Iraq through Mr. Hussein's long rule.  The diplomatic challenges that lie ahead are almost as pressing. In the last days before the war -- and only after much goading from Britain's Mr. [Tony Blair] as well as Secretary of State Colin Powell -- Mr. Bush agreed to unveil the long-awaited plan for dealing with the Palestinian conflict. Moderate Arab allies badly want this step, to help salve public anger at the sight of U.S. troops in Baghdad. But with their hands still full in Iraq, Mr. Bush and his aides aren't likely to have much time left over for tough diplomacy in Jerusalem. And it's unclear whether Mr. Bush wants to twist the arm of Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who is already insisting on renegotiating key aspects of the plan.   
