20070106
 Real Time: Revisiting the Early Net; A Slate of Predictions Made for 1995 Reveal What Has and Hasn't Changed   By Fry, Jason, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 7, 2007  A battle royal engulfing newsgroups at the time concerned spam: In April 1994, the law firm Canter & Siegel sent the first commercial spam to some 6,000 newsgroups. (You can see the original, offering the firm's services in getting a green card, here.) In the aftermath, the Internet World participants worried about tit-for-tat "cancelbot" wars emerging from efforts to kill such spam messages, as well as more marketers following Canter & Siegel's lead. And Mr. [Dave Taylor] wondered about the use of personal signatures at the bottom of newsgroup messages for commercial purposes. "The last 12 months have seen a definite transition from cute quotes to advertising hype," he wrote. "What happens when graphics can be included and viewed by the majority?" Now we all know the answer -- though the tide of such messages wound up not just in newsgroups, but in our inboxes and on Web sites.  More familiar terrain: Mike Godwin decried the Clipper chip and "media hysteria about e-mail stalking and the threat to children on the Internet," and predicted that Congress would try to regulate content on the Internet. Congress did and periodically continues to do so; while "hysteria" may be a loaded term, you can still find worried (and worrisome) stories about kids' safety online every day -- and NBC's Dateline has made a cottage industry out of its "Catch a Predator" segments. What wasn't so clear was how much worry would focus on the kids themselves, making poor choices on MySpace and Facebook sites. As for the Clipper chip, it's no more -- but worries about the federal government digging into everything from email to Web searches are very much alive, as proven by the battle between Google and the feds over the Child Online Protection Act.  Blogs tame the daunting size of the Net, offering people sources of news and discussion about a specific topic important to them, tailored lists of sites, and the conversational back and forth that made newsgroups so vibrant. It's the latter that's the real advice -- the rest isn't particularly new. What's Justin Hall's "Links From the Underground" (praised at the time by Mr. [Kenny Greenberg] as the "best hotlist") but a proto-blog? Today's blogs are easier to produce, but not substantially different.   
