20021002
 South Dakota: Where the Action Is in 2002   By By Albert R. Hunt, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 3, 2002  The main bout is the Senate clash with Republican Congressman John Thune trying to unseat Democratic Senator Tim Johnson. It's full of storylines: There's a proxy war between Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle and President [George Bush], who recruited Mr. Thune and has already been here three times. The race has become a mecca for outside groups pouring millions of dollars into comparatively cheap media markets with decidedly negative messages. And since January both candidates have had rock-solid support of 40% to 45% of the electorate.  There are other cross currents. The 41-year-old John Thune is a more telegenic and vibrant campaigner than the more methodical Tim Johnson. But the Democrat has a superior political organization. South Dakota is a Republican state, with the GOP enjoying almost a 50,000 voter edge. In its 113-year history, the state has only elected four Democratic governors, who've served a total of 18 years. Only once in the past 65 years have the Democrats controlled the legislature. But in a state where populism vies with traditional conservatism, and governmental largesse matters, Democrats have more than held their own on the federal level starting with George McGovern and continuing through Tom Daschle.  Mr. Daschle and Mr. Bush both are enormously popular. But the president may have cost his candidate last month when he failed to deliver expected aid for a devastating drought. "If he can't deliver now," the senator says of his rival's claim of clout with the White House, "when can he?" Even the congressman acknowledges a problem: "The perception was that the president wasn't as sympathetic as he should have been and South Dakota wasn't getting as much help as it should." As a result, national political analyst Stuart Rothenberg, who earlier tilted this contest to Mr. Thune "by a pinkie" now leans to Mr. Johnson by "maybe a fingernail."   
