20051003
 Quarterly Mutual Funds Review; Most Diversified Stock Funds Managed Broad-Based Gains; Average U.S. Holding Rose 4.7% in Third Period; Narrow Sectors Fared Well   By Egodigwe, Laura, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 4, 2005  The Focus 30 fund, which has a minimum investment of $2,500, is the result of Mr. [Neil Hennessy] and his team back-testing a variety of quantitative investment criteria and coming up with a winning formula. As indicated by the name, Focus 30 holds only 30 stocks, with market capitalizations of $1 billion to $10 billion. Part of the formula is screening for stocks with a price-to-sales ratio of 1.5 or less, whose earnings are higher than the previous year and which are displaying positive relative strength over 12 months. Mr. Hennessy puts 3.33% of the fund's $110 million in assets into each stock and gives stocks a year to work out. Every year he and his team "refresh" the portfolio by selling the stocks it holds in order to buy what the formula dictates at that time. "We don't go and look for sectors, we don't go look for companies, we don't talk to management, and we don't kick the tires," he says. "We're letting the stocks or the companies come to us."  Gartmore Micro Cap's largest holding is Smith Micro Software Inc., an Aliso Viejo, Calif., company that makes software allowing cellphone providers to offer broadband service. Mr. [Carl Wilk] bought it last year at around $4 following a pullback in the stock after Smith's newly announced deal with Verizon Corp. hit a temporary snag involving a slower-than-expected rollout of Verizon's broadband service. But "even through that, Smith continued to earn money," Mr. Wilk said. "The thing was selling at 10 times earnings just a couple of weeks ago. If I could buy a technology company that's going to grow their earnings better than 20% and I'm only paying a 10 multiple for it, I think it's a good stock." After rising to around $9, and falling back near $4, Smith is trading around $7.  At 40 years of age, Mr. [Robert Gardiner] has been at Wasatch Funds for more than half of his life. He started doing "grunt work" after school at age 16 for founder Sam Stewart, who was a neighbor of Mr. Gardiner's family in Salt Lake City. Except for a two-year Mormon mission in Paris and then for a brief time after college when he planned to pursue a Ph.D., Mr. Gardiner has always worked at Wasatch Funds, named for Utah's Wasatch mountain range. "I left for a month or two and I really, really missed it," Mr. Gardiner says. "I called Sam back up and said, 'Hey, I want to come back.' "   
