20070705
 Trading Up: Inside Exchanges' Race To Invent New Bets; Amid a Merger Wave, They Seek Products With Fatter Margins   By Aaron Lucchetti and Alistair MacDonald, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 6, 2007  Mr. [Labuszewski], who grew up in the Chicago suburb of Elmhurst, started his career at the Chicago Board of Trade in 1979 after earning his MBA at the University of Illinois. He now calls that era "the dark ages" before financial futures took off. He then worked at Nikko Securities, where he was a key player in bringing big Japanese investors into U.S. futures markets, says Jack Bouroudjian, a former colleague at Nikko who also has served on the Merc board. Since the Merc "discovered" him in 1998, Mr. Bouroudjian says, Mr. Labuszewski helped launch a raft of stock-index futures generating hundreds of millions of trades.  Mr. Labuszewski, author or co-author of four books on derivatives, calls the exchange a "derivatives supermarket" that can make money from a large variety of small transactions. His "J-Lab" nickname reflects his experimenter's role, and personality, in the eyes of some colleagues. "He doesn't strike me as a guy who wheels and deals," says Jamie Selway, an executive at New York brokerage firm White Cap Trading. "He's in there with a beaker of steam, trying to create."  Mr. Labuszewski soon switched gears. A small group of Merc executives, meeting in their downtown Chicago office and a Starbucks around the corner, started batting around the idea of creating a Merc index of potential company bankruptcies. Among 32 companies, if any filed for bankruptcy the buyer's position would rise in value and the seller's would fall. The main obstacle was figuring out how to put a relative value on each bankrupt company based on its remaining assets. It can take months of fighting in bankruptcy court to settle that issue. Mr. Labuszewski's answer was simple but unorthodox: The Merc designed the derivative to basically pay the seller 40 cents on the dollar of the bankrupt company's bonds, no matter the balance sheet of the particular company.   
