20070403
 Saudi Balancing Act   By Karen Elliot House, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 4, 2007  Internationally, the king's earliest focus was on trying to repair the damage done to U.S.-Saudi relations when, on Sept. 11, 2001, 15 Saudi extremists and four others attacked the U.S., and by the wider perception that Saudi Arabia has exported Islamic extremism. Royal diplomacy over the past 18 months had substantially patched up the bilateral relationship with the Bush administration, which dropped talk of the need for democracy in Saudi Arabia, though the king's remarks at the Arab Summit aren't likely to go over well in the White House. Changing the kingdom's image among the American public will take far more effort. As one Saudi official says bleakly, "There is no way to change the image of Saudi Arabia without changing the image of Islam."  Despite all the effort to broaden its diplomatic circle of allies, both Saudi officials and ordinary citizens with whom one talks are fixated on the Iranian threat and on whether or not the U.S. will launch a military strike to try to destroy, or at least retard, Iran's nuclear programs. During dinner in a tent outside Riyadh with members of a Young Saudi Leaders group, the topic comes up over and over. The general tenor of the evening is that the U.S. has horribly "botched" Iraq and this could encourage young Saudi extremists to be drawn to Iraq to fight the U.S. and return, radicalized, to threaten Saudi Arabia, or that sectarian strife will spill into Saudi Arabia where the oil-rich Eastern province is dominated by Shias.  To the Saudis success lies in balancing competing pressures to preserve the status quo not in staking out risky new directions. There still is little sign that the kingdom has the courage of its own concerns. The regime talks about Saudi Arabia, the U.S. and Israel having common strategic interests in the Middle East, including containing extremist forces in the region and blocking Iranian domination. But as yet they haven't stepped up to join Egypt and Jordan in recognizing Israel. For all the concern about U.S. failure in Iraq, the oil rich kingdom isn't helping U.S. taxpayers foot the bill for a war whose outcome is at least as important to Saudi Arabia as the U.S. For all the fears about Iranian domination of the region, the Saudi response beyond multiple levels of dialogue, is to hope that the U.S. solves the problem.   
