20010404
 World Watch   By Compiled by David I. Oyama, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 5, 2001  Auto makers involved in Formula One auto racing decided to form a rival racing circuit, apparently worried by German pay-television company Kirch Group's planned involvement in the sport. Paolo Cantarella, Fiat's chief executive who is also chairman of the European Car Makers Association, said the group decided unanimously to form a joint venture and a new racing circuit because of "recent developments." The auto makers include DaimlerChrysler, Ford Motor's Jaguar unit, Bayerishe Motoren Werke, Renault and Ferrari, controlled by Fiat. People close to the auto makers said that although the decision is apparently final, the companies wouldn't rule out reaching a compromise with Kirch. Kirch and Germany's EM.TV & Merchandising recently raised their combined stake in Formula One to 75%. The auto makers don't like the idea that one broadcaster, Kirch, could control Formula One broadcasting rights.  A team from the International Monetary Fund could arrive in Jakarta as early as next week to review Indonesia's stalled $5 billion IMF loan program, following recent moves by the government to push ahead with economic reforms, the IMF's chief representative in Jakarta said. John Dodsworth said the IMF's top management will make a decision "in a day or two" about when a mission will be sent to Jakarta. Such a mission would come in the wake of the Indonesian government's recent publication of new guidelines to cover corporate-debt-restructuring deals and its decision to convene a panel of experts that will advise the government on controversial changes to Indonesia's central-bank law. Indonesia needs the IMF program's imprimatur to draw back much-needed foreign investment. A delay in the disbursement of the latest $400 million IMF loan, which was due in December, has affected foreign investors' confidence in Indonesia.  The U.S. appeared to back off on efforts to speed negotiations on an ambitious free-trade pact covering 34 countries in the Western Hemisphere. Heading into a meeting of hemisphere trade ministers this weekend in Buenos Aires, the U.S. supported a Chilean proposal to set a goal of Jan. 1, 2005, for implementation of the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas, or FTAA, agreement. But faced with strong opposition from Brazil and other South American and Caribbean countries, the U.S. began signaling it might back off. A U.S. official said in Buenos Aires he wouldn't be disappointed if delegates maintained the current goal of concluding talks by 2005, rather than making that the implementation date. The U.S. is working with the 33 other Western Hemisphere nations to build consensus, the official said.   
