20030502
 Leading the News: New Charges Added Against Fastow --- Wife of Enron Ex-Officer, Seven Others Are Indicted In Collapse of Energy Firm   By By Rebecca Smith, The Wall Street Journal,  May 2, 2003  The government said that Messrs. [Kenneth Rice] and [Joseph Hirko], as well as former EBS Chief Operating Officer Kevin Hannon and two former senior vice presidents, Scott Yeager and Rex Shelby, engaged in a concerted plan to promote "ground breaking broadband technology" that the government said never existed. During the period in question, basically 1999 through 2001, the government said Enron officials touted the Enron Intelligent Network, which was supposedly capable of controlling capacity over its telecommunications system through advanced software.  Also, insider-trading charges were pressed against Messrs. Rice, Hirko, Hannon, Yeager and Shelby. They were accused of selling large sums of stock from exercising options at a time when they were falsely representing Enron's earnings prospects. One indictment said Mr. Rice, for example, sold $53.1 million of Enron stock, between February 2000 and June 2001, "while in possession of non-public information" that differed from the company's public representations. The goverment also said Mr. Hirko sold $35.2 million of stock and Mr. Yeager sold $54.6 million. All told, the group is said to have fraudulently reaped more than $150 million through stock sales.  Ms. Fastow, onetime assistant treasurer of corporate finance, is accused of secretly participating in an Enron partnership known as RADR and sharing with her husband $162,800 in apparent profits that weren't reported to the IRS. In addition, Ms. Fastow is accused of sharing in a payment of $67,224 with her husband as a result of participation in another key partnership, Chewco, that transacted millions of dollars of business with Enron that permitted Enron to inflate earnings by hundreds of million of dollars. Nanci Clarence, attorney for Ms. Fastow, said her client was innocent and being charged "to put pressure on her husband" to cooperate with prosecutors.   
