20051004
 Fans of Aaron Burr Find Unlikely Ally In a 'New' Relative; Retired Black Nurse Tells Story of His Other Family; 'An Upstanding Citizen'   By Ip, Greg, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 5, 2005  The documents and oral history aren't conclusive; there is no birth, death or marriage certificate linking [Aaron Burr] to [John Pierre Burr]. And DNA testing hasn't been done. Still, Mr. [Stuart Fisk Johnson] and his association are embracing Mrs. Allen and her relatives as long lost kin. "Even though it hasn't been proven yet, we're very conscious [Mrs. Allen] is getting up in years and we want to learn about her and this family before it's too late," says Mr. Johnson, 62 years old, who runs the association from his home in Upper Marlboro, Md.  Allen Ballard, a distant cousin of Mrs. Allen who counts himself as a Burr descendant, says that some of his own, older relatives felt ambivalent about being descended from Burr. "This traitor thing still hung on him," he says. "There hadn't been all this revisionist history" of recent years that portrays Burr as victimized by the malice of Hamilton and [Thomas Jefferson]. Mr. Ballard, who teaches history and African-American studies at the State University of New York at Albany, says his mother's aunt had a marriage certificate showing that Burr and [Mary Emmons] were married after [Theodosia Prevost]'s death but that the aunt tore it up out of frustration with the family's lack of interest.  The new evidence of Burr's family of color gets mixed reactions from historians. Thomas Fleming, author of "Duel: [Alexander Hamilton], Aaron Burr and the Future of America," is skeptical, arguing that Burr's enemies would almost certainly have learned of such a family's existence and "played it up very big." But Roger Kennedy, author of "Burr, Hamilton and Jefferson: a Study in Character," calls the story "plausible." He notes Burr, in a letter to his daughter Theodosia, briefly mentioned a woman in Philadelphia about whom he seemed to feel both affection and guilt. Mr. Kennedy speculates it may have been a woman of color.   
