20070906
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Review / Film: '3:10 to Yuma' Gets Derailed By Epic Ambitions; Crowe's Vivid Villain; 'Shadow Of the Moon' Is Eloquent, Poignant   By Morgenstern, Joe, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 7, 2007  The first thing to be said about James Mangold's remake of "3:10 To Yuma" is that it's a thoroughly modern showcase for fine actors: Russell Crowe as the outlaw Ben Wade, a bad guy with a tinge, or a twinge, of good; Christian Bale as the rancher Dan Evans, a forlorn guy who finds his inner hero; Gretchen Mol, Dallas Roberts, Peter Fonda as a bounty hunter and the glint-eyed, scene-thieving Ben Foster as Wade's henchman. Still, the modernization has bestowed mixed blessings. The basic plot survives intact, and intriguing as ever. The picture looks great: Phedon Papamichael's elegant color cinematography has replaced Charles Lawton Jr.'s elegant black-and-white cinematography. And the action sequences are impressive, for a while. Yet the whole enterprise is seriously out of scale. What began half a century ago as a small, taut Western has become an extended, self- serious and, in the end, ludicrously distended spectacle that seems to bring the Yuma train to the station 20 minutes late.  Thanks to who they are and what they're talking about, the 10 talking heads of "In the Shadow Of the Moon" are more dramatic than the heroes of most dramas. Nine of them are Apollo astronauts who have walked on the moon. One, Michael Collins, served as Apollo 11's command module pilot so that Neil Armstrong, who doesn't appear in the film, and Buzz Aldrin, who does, could become the first two of Earth's 12 human beings who have earned that distinction.  The picture quality ranges from astoundingly crude (it's hard to believe that the whole world was transfixed by those blurry TV images, transmitted live, of Armstrong's first step onto the lunar surface) to remarkably sharp (Apollo 17's Gene Cernan and Harrison Schmitt, both interviewed here, tooling around that surface in a lunar rover.) And of course we see the Apollo 8 photograph that has come to be known as "Earthrise," the unprecedented portrait of, as one astronaut puts it, "that jewel of Earth hung in the blackness of space."   
