20031102
 The Bookslinger; Only Stephen King Could Get Rival Publishers to Cooperate On a Seven-Book Western Saga   By Trachtenberg, Jeffrey A, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 3, 2003  Even with the publishers' cooperative push, the novels could be a challenge to market. "The Dark Tower" series requires a bit more commitment from readers than the average [Stephen King] tome. The seven- volume saga totals 3,600-plus pages, features 550 characters and a companion book -- soon to be joined by a second -- to help readers make sense of it. The series, which is less commercial than Mr. King's popular fare such as "The Shining" and "Cujo," has been published in fits and starts since he started to write it in 1970. Although the books sold well, Mr. King considered the series more of an artistic endeavor, and didn't market it seriously, and the books received far less notice from reviewers in the mainstream press than his more familiar titles.  Meanwhile, Viking has gotten over Mr. King's departure. "We saw this an opportunity to renew our relationship with Steve," says Pamela Dorman, Viking's executive editor. There is also the financial incentive of trying to sell those early books. "I think a lot of people will buy 'Wolves of the Calla' and then go back to the beginning," Mr. King said.  Out of the Dark A brief synopsis of Stephen King's 'Dark Tower' series: -- 'The Gunslinger' (1982) The opening chapter in the series. Roland, thelast gunslinger, in a world where time has moved on, pursues his nemesis, TheMan in Black, across a desert. -- 'The Drawing of the Three' (1987) Roland encounters three mysteriousdoorways on the beach. Through these doorways, Roland meets the companionswho will assist him on his quest. -- 'The Waste Lands' (1991) Roland and his companions find the Path of theBeam that will lead them to the Dark Tower. Along they way, Roland adds twonew members to his group. -- 'Wizard and Glass' (1997) Roland and his friends meet an evil monorailthat loves riddles but is intent on killing all of them. -- 'Wolves of the Calla' (2003) Roland and his friends visit a place wherefamilies face the loss of some of their children every 20 years or so. -- 'Song of Susannah' (2004) Susannah Dean, one of Roland' s companions, istaken over by a demon and the pair are then transported back to New York Cityin the summer of 1999. -- 'The Dark Tower' (2004) The conclusion of Roland's quest and the fatesof his friends.   
