19990802
 Day Trading, and Its Dangers   By By Burton G. Malkiel, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 3, 1999  Books on electronic day trading top the lists of best-selling investment guides. They claim that ordinary people can find day trading a lucrative, exciting and accessible profession on today's wide-open electronic frontier. Harvey Houtkin, chief executive of All-Tech Investment Group, one of the day-trading firms where the shootings took place, is the self-proclaimed father of electronic stock trading. Mr. Houtkin claims that the resources of day-trading firms place individuals on a level playing field with the pros, creating financial democracy at its best.  Day trading involves the pursuit of short-term profit through quick in and out trades, sometimes over a period of just a few minutes. For day traders the long term means later in the afternoon. These traders usually liquidate their positions at the end of each day. Day traders typically make use of a wide variety of online resources, such as Internet chat rooms and message boards.  While it is true that the Internet has sharply reduced commission costs, online investors must realize that the biggest cost to trading is hidden in the spread between the bid and asked prices. Online day traders, even those trading directly with other investors through an electronic communication network, often give up a chance to trade within the bid-asked spread, as might be possible if they were using traditional brokers. Moreover, orders executed through many discount investment brokers are rerouted to other trading firms with the result that execution prices might reflect stock price movement subsequent to the time when the order was received. Thus the all-in transaction costs of online trading (including the high costs of margin borrowings) can substantially exceed the small stated commission cost. And if the trader in a high-tax state is successful, he will fork over nearly half of his gains to the tax man, since short-term gains are taxed at regular income tax rates.   
