20050704
 Quarterly Mutual Funds Review; U.S. Bond Funds Manage to Eke Out Positive Returns; Rise in Treasurys Suggests Investors View Stock Market With Increasing Uncertainty   By Crane, Agnes T, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 5, 2005  "GM and Ford, I think were really the catalyst for that long-awaited correction in the investment grade corporate market. Spreads were too narrow," said Mr. [Kevin Flanagan]. The improvement of valuations after the initial selloff, however, demonstrates that "the Ford and GM woes were really credit specific. This wasn't 2002 when you had Enron and Worldcom," he said. In 2002, the bankruptcies of these companies amid corporate governance and accounting scandals sent investors fleeing from corporate bonds in general.  "The surprise is the shape of the yield curve," said Bob Auwaerter, head of Vanguard's Fixed Income Group, who oversees approximately $265 billion in bond and money-market fund assets. Historically when the curve is moving in this direction, the economy is on shakier ground, said Mr. Auwaerter, who like many economists, is "optimistic" on growth and therefore sees low long-term rates as a puzzle. Economists largely expect the economy to expand between 3.5% and 4% this year.  Mr. Auwaerter is in good company. Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan also has had difficulty explaining why the 10-year Treasury note yields significantly less than the 4.69% it yielded the day the interest-rate setting Federal Open Market Committee kicked off its tightening cycle with the first quarter-point rate rise in June 2004. Though Mr. Greenspan said the idea that low long rates reflect slower growth ahead is "a credible notion," it doesn't explain their adherence to such depressed levels fully. Mr. Greenspan also listed a series of other hypotheses including demand from pension funds, foreign central bank reserve accumulation of dollar-denominated assets as well lower inflation expectations, but in the end offered nothing concrete to explain what he famously referred to as a "conundrum" earlier in the year.   
