20070404
 The Daily Fix: Columnists Bid Fond Farewell To a College-Football Legend Online edition  By Carl Bialik and Jason Fry, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 5, 2007  "What's strange is that the praise Grambling State University's icon will be getting in retrospect now . . . is the sort of thing he had always strived to deflect," Greg Cote writes in the Miami Herald. "The son of a cotton sharecropper and a domestic worker managed to both rise above his humble roots and never forget them. On the day he surpassed Alabama's legendary Paul 'Bear' [Bryant] for most career coaching victories in college football, Robinson said, 'I'm no better than any other coach. But I've heard the best in America and learned.' "  In the Baltimore Sun, David Steele tries to get past the numbers, writing that "you don't have to go much further down to see and hear the tales of how he raised six decades worth of 'productive citizens,' many during a time when men like him and his players were not considered real citizens of this country. To be black in the 1940s, '50s and '60s in America, particularly where Grambling is located in Louisiana, generally meant settling for less than what this country promised. Robinson taught his followers not to settle for anything less. The word 'taught' is not used lightly here. Robinson was a teacher the way all college coaches at every level say they are, but too few actually manage to be. . . . What he taught was the American dream."  Take what Augusta caddie Frank Jones: "The day of Wood's breakthrough at the Masters' -- 22 years after Lee Elder became the first black man to play in the tournament -- remains as vivid a memory as Frank Jones has. Watching at home on TV, seeing the 18th green lined with African-American workers, recalling all the courses he was shunned from as he tried to play a round with his K-Mart clubs, his arms were filled with goose bumps, his eyes with tears. 'You couldn't believe what you were seeing,' Jones says. 'The next day, it was like a new halo over the clouds.' "   
