20051004
 Inrix Gets Jump-Start From Microsoft   By Loftus, Peter, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 5, 2005  Under its agreement, Inrix pays a revenue-based royalty to Microsoft in exchange for exclusive use of traffic-analysis software that was in development at Microsoft for about three years, according to Inrix Chief Executive Bryan Mistele. Among other technologies Microsoft is seeking to license are software that converts your photo into a cartoon image and biometric identification cards.  Mr. Mistele started Inrix in Microsoft's hometown of Redmond, Wash., last year after a 10-year career at Microsoft, where he was most recently general manager of the mobile-services business unit. He says the Microsoft license program has "accelerated our development plan by several years." What's more, it made it easier for Inrix to raise $6.1 million in venture-capital funding this spring in a round led by August Capital and Venrock Associates, both of Menlo Park, Calif.  There are potential drawbacks to the license program. Mr. Mistele says Inrix's relationship with Microsoft could make Microsoft's competitors less willing to do business with Inrix. For example, Inrix wants to sell its software to Web portals, but Google Inc. and Yahoo Inc. compete with Microsoft's MSN portal. Still, Inrix continues to explore relationships with those companies.  Under its agreement, Inrix pays a revenue-based royalty to Microsoft in exchange for exclusive use of traffic-analysis software that was in development at Microsoft for about three years, according to Inrix Chief Executive Bryan Mistele. Among other technologies Microsoft is seeking to license are software that converts your photo into a cartoon image and biometric identification cards.  Mr. Mistele started Inrix in Microsoft's hometown of Redmond, Wash., last year after a 10-year career at Microsoft, where he was most recently general manager of the mobile-services business unit. He says the Microsoft license program has "accelerated our development plan by several years." What's more, it made it easier for Inrix to raise $6.1 million in venture-capital funding this spring in a round led by August Capital and Venrock Associates, both of Menlo Park, Calif.  There are potential drawbacks to the license program. Mr. Mistele says Inrix's relationship with Microsoft could make Microsoft's competitors less willing to do business with Inrix. For example, Inrix wants to sell its software to Web portals, but Google Inc. and Yahoo Inc. compete with Microsoft's MSN portal. Still, Inrix continues to explore relationships with those companies.   
