20020606
 Bullish on America   By By David Malpass, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 7, 2002  In reality, the likelihood is that the U.S. has entered a broad, durable economic sweet spot, not a fragile interim. The economic recovery shouldn't be all that sensitive to interest rates, mortgage rates, business confidence or the foreign demand for U.S. assets. Growth is being driven by other, more powerful factors: the welcome exit from the deflationary macroeconomic policies of the late 1990s, and the proven flexibility and entrepreneurism of the labor force, which have added immensely to our earning potential.  The recent rise in the price of gold and the dollar's "weakness" against other currencies is actually a central part of the bullish case for the U.S. The low price of gold in the late 1990s and the dollar's appreciation against other currencies indicated a shortage of liquidity, a scarcity of dollars. The recent moves in the dollar's value are an almost audible sigh of relief that the deflationary forces have abated. Something similar happened in July 1982: Gold rose sharply when Fed Chairman Paul Volcker loosened his disinflationary monetary policy. Within a month, equities had begun a strong rally, knowing that this was relief from deflation, not an inflation threat. With the dollar still very strong today, we are likely to see a low inflation environment for years to come, a key component of the economic sweet spot.  Overlooked in the current gloom is the structural improvement in the U.S. unemployment rate in the 1980s and 1990s. If the U.S. unemployment "floor" is indeed 4%-6% rather than the 6%-8% predicted by the Phillips Curve, then the lifetime earnings of U.S. workers is trillions of dollars more than earlier estimates. The U.S. has a growing labor force employed mostly in private-sector, flexible jobs. This has massive positive implications for the U.S. and for the wide and widening U.S. advantage over Europe, which has a shrinking labor force employed mostly in government and unionized jobs.   
