20070603
 The Morning Brief: The Group of Six, Plus One, Plus One Online edition  By Schuman, Joseph, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 4, 2007  In an interview with Le Figaro, the Russian leader emphasized parallels with Nicolas Sarkozy, saying that like the new French president he is a friend of the U.S. who simply wants to reinforce the international security system. To that end, Russia needs to address the missile shield with reciprocal measures to "re-establish equilibrium," an imbalance, Mr. [Vladimir Putin] suggests, that might be aimed at "impeding a rapprochement between Russia and Europe." Does that mean a return to a time when Russian missiles were pointing at Western Europe, Le Figaro asks. "Yes," Mr. Putin replies. "We are now heading back to that period." Speaking to the Times of London, Mr. Putin goes so far that having "This system of missile defense on one side and the absence of this system on the other . . . increases the possibility of unleashing a nuclear conflict."  Nationalism may be on the rise in geopolitics, but it isn't in branding, at least for younger Americans. Once upon a time, Ad Age notes, "it made sense to proudly announce a product's country of origin in your advertising. Many car buyers were proud to buy American. Technofiles knew the best electronics equipment came from Japan. And people of a certain stripe will always argue that Belgium makes the best beer." But a new study from Anderson Analytics suggests young consumers aren't able to identify where their favorite brands originate and wouldn't care if they knew, the magazine reports. "Being online transcends geography," says Ted Morris, senior vice president for global alliances at BrandIntel. "Point of origin is becoming less relevant."  For example, the Anderson survey of college students found just 4.4% knew Nokia is Finnish and that 53.6% guessed the brand was Japanese; fewer than 10% know the countries of Lego, LG, Samsung and Adidas -- most of these were deemed American -- and while 31% correctly guessed Ikea is Swedish, nearly 24% guessed it was from the U.S. "For the most part," Anderson's Tom Anderson says, "this next generation of educated American consumers either have no clue where the brands they use come from or simply assume everything comes from the United States, Japan or Germany."   
