20030204
 Home, Green Home: Builders Embrace Environmental Goals --- Pressure From Activist Groups, Lower Energy Bills Spur the Trend; In Some Towns, Expedited Permits   By By Jim Carlton, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 5, 2003  The trend is still relatively small, but growing fast. Officials at the National Association of Home Builders, a big trade group in Washington, D.C., say that about 13,000 of the 18,000 homes that have been built over the past decade in accordance with their group's green specifications were constructed last year. Meanwhile, a 2001 survey by Cahners Residential Group, an industry trade publisher, found that 28% of 344 U.S. builders questioned in a survey used green techniques on most of their developments. That was an increase from 22% when the survey was conducted in 2000. In the same 2001 survey, 94% of 300 American consumers questioned cited energy savings as their most sought-after green upgrade, followed by majority preferences for water-saving appliances and recycled building materials.  At the International Builders Show in Las Vegas last month, green building was one of the subthemes of a convention that attracted some 90,000 builders from all over the world. There were panel discussions on the trend, as well as numerous green products on display. Temple-Inland showcased some gypsum wallboard made from at least 95% recycled materials, while Swiss agribusiness giant Syngenta AG demonstrated a greener termite barrier. The so-called Impasse Termite System is designed to encase insecticide inside a plastic sheet beneath a home's foundation so that the chemical doesn't have to be sprayed outside and left to seep into the ground.  At about the same time in Houston, Emerald Homes had begun testing new energy-efficient designs. The builder, now owned by D.R. Horton Inc. of Arlington, Texas, had begun outfitting its homes with such amenities as double-paned windows and glass designed to cut down on sunlight in the late 1980s. As a result, energy consumption in these homes was about 50% lower -- saving customers on average $150 a month on their electricity bills in the sweltering Houston climate, and more than offsetting the added building cost of as much as $4,000 a home. Now all 650 of the homes the builder constructs annually in the Houston area use these and other green features.   
