20000802
 Opera: Sousa in Cuba, Handel on the Strand ---- `Glass Blowers,' `Acis and Galatea' and 'Salome' at Glimmerglass: Great Singing and Wild Sets   By By Heidi Waleson, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 3, 2000  The costumes for [Handel]'s "Acis and Galatea," this time by Constance Hoffman, had a similarly jarring effect. OK, so happy nymphs and swains are tough to do straight, but Ms. Hoffman and director Mark Lamos put them into a kind of 1950's beach party scene. The women wore long white wrap skirts over shorts and a variety of skimpy tops, a few of them so pointedly bra-like that the vulgarity screamed for attention. The men were in sailor outfits, and everyone sat in orange deck chairs and tossed around big blue beach balls. Damon (John Tessier) was the nerd in a Hawaiian shirt and horn-rims, and the cyclops Polyphemus (Dean Elzinga) was the ugly outsider, with a shock of orange hair and a big red headlight on his forehead. Set designer Paul Steinberg cleverly had him enter in a flying box that replicated the set, a hill with a large reclining blue statue and some shimmery trees, on a small scale, to imply his giant size. He seemed more clownish than dangerous, but that was probably the point -- one of those kids who seems like a joke until he throws a rock and kills someone. The sexy aspects of the piece were clear: Mr. Lamos had the two title characters indulge in some heavy petting on a swing; less so were the emotional ones, when the story turns dark, and then redemptive.  Elizabeth Byrne carried off the title role with a steely sound that was occasionally sharp, but with an intense and theatrical vocal characterization. Sporting a chopped-off punk hairdo, she seemed more like the bad seed (perhaps a good match for Polyphemus?) than a sexy, pouting teenager. Her dance, choreographed by Nicola Bowie, was pretty minimal, with some floating fabrics, manipulated by helpful handmaidens, working to disguise lack of content. But her final scene with Jokanaan's head, a shocking orgy of necrophilia that left her white dress smeared with blood, was shattering. Ned Barth, a splendidly sonorous baritone, was a fine Jokanaan (with his head). Kenneth Riegel specializes in the half-demented Herod, and his familiar interpretation rang out as though for a much larger house. Robynne Redmon, a nasty Herodias, got to wear poison green and grope the Page (Sandra Picques Eddy). Tenor Eric Fennel reaped the advantage of a small house: he was able to sing sweetly rather than stentorianly as Narraboth.   
