20000309
 Review / The Gallery: On and Off the Wall   By By David Littlejohn, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 10, 2000  As an opening fanfare for the San Francisco show -- his first thorough retrospective in 22 years -- Mr. LeWitt designed a pair of 29-by-36-foot wall paintings, made up of broad, brilliant stripes of the six primary and secondary colors in eight different configurations, straight and curved. These made-to-order murals, intended to remain in place indefinitely, sing out from both sides of the grand staircase at the back of Mario Botta's cool, soaring, black-and-white-striped atrium. (Mr. Botta hasn't yet announced his reaction.)  The works on paper and some of the earlier structures and wall drawings were made by the artist himself. For everything else, Mr. LeWitt conceives the idea, writes a description, sketches a plan and lets others make the object. Some two dozen workers, including local artists and art-student volunteers, helped to make the works on display here. The installation, by far the most labor-intensive in the museum's history, took five weeks to complete. The heroic efforts of so many other hands, added to Mr. LeWitt's own restricted, godlike participation, help to explain how he has been able to accomplish so much and be seen in so many places. Banks, public buildings and corporate headquarters in the U.S. and Europe, as well as other museums, boast permanent LeWitt wall paintings every bit as large and attention-grabbing as SFMOMA's.  Mr. LeWitt declared early in his career that the idea for an artwork was more important than the finished product, helping give birth to what is now called conceptual art. By way of curt, gnomic verbal recipes for arrangements of repeated lines and geometrical shapes, he tried to remove from his creations all traces of narration, pictorialism or personal emotion. By letting other people draw or paint them on existing walls according to these recipes -- with the stipulation that the drawings or paintings could be erased and replicated by still other people working elsewhere in other formats -- he deprived collectors, gallery owners, curators and speculators of works "by his own hand," and, in fact, of any "works" at all. There is nothing to store, nothing to ship, nothing to insure or bid on except a piece of paper describing the work and the artist's signed certificate of its authenticity. The wall drawings (which may fill a whole room) that will be erased here after May 21 will then have to be laboriously remade on walls in Chicago, New York and other cities. Sol LeWitt's wall drawings are at once temporary and eternal; the work of his imagination and the hand of anyone able to hold a pencil, rag or paintbrush and follow his directions.   
