20020709
 Whale Fat Piles Up In Norway, Tons of It, With Nowhere to Go --- Japanese Would Kill for It, And the Freezers are Full, But the Trade Isn't Legal   By By Charles Goldsmith, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 10, 2002  In Japan, however, whale blubber is a delicacy. Mr. [Karsten Ellingsen] figures his stash could be worth as much as $10 million if sold to Japan's finest restaurants. At the Tokuya restaurant in Osaka, for example, blubber is cut into thin slices and served raw with a ginger soy sauce, costing 1,500 yen ($12.50) for seven slices. Some customers ask for blubber cooked with various vegetables in miso soup. Owner Mutsuko Ohnishi, author of a whale cookbook, also offers whale bacon, whale stew and whale tongue soup.  The International Whaling Commission, in Cambridge, England, imposed a moratorium on all commercial whaling back in 1986, setting the catch limit at zero. That zero level will remain in effect unless it is overturned by a two-thirds vote of the 48-member IWC, which is deeply divided. The IWC estimates that there are some 149,000 minke whales -- the only ones fished by Norwegians -- in the North Atlantic (excluding the east coast of Canada, which hasn't been surveyed). The minke whale is neither the most abundant nor the most endangered species in the seas. There are about 47,300 fin whales in the North Atlantic, for example, and 780,000 pilot whales in the central and eastern North Atlantic. Norway imposes its own quota on its minke whale catch. This year, it's 671.  So what are the chances that Mr. Ellingsen's whale blubber will soon grace Japanese tables? There are still issues to be settled between the governments of Norway and Japan, including tests on PCB levels in Norwegian whales and details of the system designed to ensure that whale products marked Norwegian aren't actually from whales illegally caught in Asia. But the decisive factor could be this autumn's Cites vote to reclassify Norway's minke whales as less endangered; that would help shelter Japan from opposition by antiwhaling groups should exports resume.   
