20011220
 Never Mind: What Killed Stimulus? Hints of a Recovery And Politics of 2002 --- Aftermath of Sept. 11 Attack Gives Way to Partisanship And Fears About Deficit --- The President Still Pushes   By By Shailagh Murray and John D. McKinnon, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 21, 2001  At a breakfast with reporters yesterday morning, Sen. [Tom Daschle] stressed the GOP stimulus bill's budget-busting impact. His staff distributed a four-page analysis showing that the bill would cost more than $200 billion over the next five years, and only $88 billion of that cost would come next year -- when the stimulus was needed. "Do we really want to borrow $211 billion for this package?" he said. "I don't think we do."  A genuine bipartisan desire to create an economic stimulus package seemed to emerge in the weeks following Sept. 11. Kent Conrad, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, joined with his Republican counterparts to draft a set of bipartisan principles for the stimulus bill. Drawing on advice from former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, who has become a trusted adviser of congressional Democratic leaders, that proposal emphasized short-term measures that would boost the economy without hurting the federal balance sheet in the long term. Initially, Mr. [Bush] seemed to embrace the same bipartisan spirit, wedging Democratic priorities into his wish list.  The deteriorating federal budget outlook clearly took a toll on the stimulus talks. Republican analysts at the Senate Budget Committee acknowledged this week that even without the stimulus package, the 2002 surplus was down to a slim $1 billion -- down from the $176 billion surplus projected as recently as August. The changes were due to continuing weakness in tax revenues, as well as increases in spending. A fresh reminder of the worsening budget picture came yesterday, when the Treasury announced the government had a $54.27 billion deficit in November -- double the size of the deficit a year earlier. Looking over the next 10 years, surplus projections had dropped below $2 trillion from the $5.6 trillion projected in January, according to Republican Senate budget experts.   
