20020809
 Tastings: `Don't Tell Me Everything Is Good' --- Our Readers Offer Advice To Wine Shop Owners; Tales of Snobs, Sexism   By By Dorothy J. Gaiter and John Brecher, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 9, 2002  9. Keep track of what I like and reward my loyalty. At a time when the video store and the pizza shop keep information about customers in their computers, readers wonder why wine shops can't do the same. Lois Zuckerman of St. Louis wrote: "Use your database to help me remember. You have my name and address in your computer. Could you scan in my selections when I make a purchase? That way, when I come back and say, `I bought a wonderful Spanish red a few weeks ago, but I don't quite recall what it was,' you can tell me." Joan Carey of New York City added: "Set up a kiosk where clients may access and print, or even read on-screen, prior purchases." Attention, merchants: She said "prior purchases." Help customers on their return and you'll build loyalty. It also wouldn't hurt to reward loyalty by occasionally throwing in a free bottle or waiving a delivery fee. Offering to take back a wine you've recommended if it doesn't please -- and, where it's legal, giving a customer a taste -- works, too.  5. Don't upsell me and don't hype. "When I ask for a good, affordable everyday drinking wine, don't lead me to the $25 bottles. When I say it's out of my range, don't stick your nose in the air as if no wine under $25 is worth drinking," wrote Tim Hartigan of Bass Lake, Wis. Bill Burton of Snowmass Village, Colo., wrote: "Don't tell me everything is good." As Steve Ludwig of West Chester, Ohio, said: "When someone tells me at every turn that each wine is wonderful, I have to automatically assume `wonderful' to mean `average.'"  3. Post more information, but make it accurate. Readers wanted more information from wine writers posted, partly so they could shop without having to talk to store employees, who intimidate them. "The best wine store in town here has clippings (your lists) and notes everywhere on the wine racks. That makes experimenting easy, fun and anonymous," wrote Paul Whitaker of Atlanta. Many people complained, though, about posted reviews that feature a different vintage than the one on the shelves. "It happens too many times at too many stores to be an accident," wrote Steve Dansky of Yardley, Pa. -- and readers feel it damages the store's credibility.   
