20020809
 Review / Film: The Spy Who Snowboarded: Red-Hot Vin Diesel Fuels Demented, Frenetic `XXX' --- Anemic `Blood Work' Could Use A Little Geritol; Aniston Finds New Friends in `The Good Girl'   By By Nancy deWolf Smith, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 9, 2002  "XXX" IS AN ASSAULT on the senses. The plot premise -- that the U.S. government would recruit a tattooed extreme-sports performer as its top spy -- is absurd. The dialogue is often ridiculous; the stunts are insane; and the demented techno-pop soundtrack is so loud that it's probably illegal. Even the fashions grate: For much of the movie, star Vin Diesel wears a long fur coat with a fleece collar the size of an area rug. To top it all off, no matter where you sit in the theater, no matter how far you arch back in your seat, there's no escaping the sensation that all the action on the screen is taking place about three feet from your face.  Then the real action begins, in the Czech Republic, where X wins the trust of a gang called Anarchy 99 by posing as a buyer for 10 stolen "high-end pasta rockets," a.k.a. Ferraris. The gang (no relation, of course, to the Czech human-rights group Charter 77) hangs out in a Baroque castle, where its leader, Yorgi (Marton Csokas), keeps a moll on his arm and many black-lipsticked babes in a back room, summoning them at one point with the memorable command: "Beezniss is over, now we party. Bitches -- Come!" Downstairs, meanwhile, Yorgi's basement is teeming with Russian scientists, lab rats and a new form of nerve gas. Can X foil a plot to "implode the world"?  Followers of Anjelica Huston will be sorry she doesn't get much to do in a role as [Terry McCaleb]'s cardiologist. She looks haggard, too, and if they made her up that way so [Clint Eastwood] wouldn't seem like the only oldster on the screen, that was mean. In the end, though, it's all about seeing Clint Eastwood; it always was about Clint and always will be. To his fans, he's cool in every role (except, possibly, for that movie with the monkey). He can't help it. We can't help watching.   
