19870405
 Overcoming Obstacles to Debt Relief   By By Henry Kaufman, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 6, 1987  The industrial world is mired in subnormal economic performance: Gross national product growth has fallen to 2% annually so far in this decade from 3% in the 1970s and 5% in the 1960s. One main reason is the overhang of debt world-wide. The solutions of old -- a deflation that purges debt through abrogation of obligations or an inflation sufficiently acute to render the debt burden less onerous and also of less worth to creditors -- would lead to massive dislocations and are unacceptable today. On the other hand, the many plausible, seemingly simple approaches now being discussed would bring in their train larger and more dangerous problems.  However, sooner or later, the many aspects of the debt problem will need to be addressed and the foundations laid for the resumption of solidly based economic growth that is less dependent on increased credit creation. This responsibility needs to be shared. Other nations in the world need to take the lead, for example, in initiating monetary and fiscal policies that will increase the pace of business activity. At present, the U.S. can do little in either area. Any further easing in U.S. monetary policy would run serious new risks if the U.S. were to act independently of other key nations. Its fiscal policy is straitjacketed because of the enormous excesses of the past. Moreover, current U.S. efforts to reduce the budget deficit have produced fiscal drag even though fiscal stimulus might be justified, given current conditions of modest inflation, excess plant capacity and a relatively high unemployment rate.  One yardstick -- the net cash infusion or net cash drain that these countries are experiencing internationally through changes in their debt position -- reveals the extent to which external debt blocks renewed economic activity in the developing countries. Measuring the changes in external debt outstanding and net interest payments in order to identify the "net financial resource transfer," the major borrowing countries experienced net cash infusions of $28 billion in 1980, $53 billion in 1981 and $38 billion in 1982. Then, these nations experienced net cash outflows of $9 billion in 1983, $44 billion in 1984, $38 billion in 1985, and $16 billion in 1986. The net cash outflow for this year is expected to be $26 billion.   
