19890720
 The Mobile Guide: The First Restaurant   By By Paul Levy, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 21, 1989  I found it while looking for locations in Paris to photograph for a feature on the birth of the restaurant for the (London) Observer Magazine. Its site was well known. Books published as early as the 1770s make it clear that the first restaurant was established in 1765 by Monsieur Boulanger on the corner of the rue du Louvre and the rue des Poulies. The last has been renamed, and it took me some days to find the new name. But I could have saved myself the trouble. In the 1970 "Guide Gourmand de France," part of the famous Guide Bleu series, two ambitious young journalists called Henri Gault and Christian Millau already had identified "Poulies" as the present-day rue Bailleul.  Boulanger (his given names are not recorded) was a seller of fortifying bouillons, such as the one made of finely minced chicken and other meat, broth and ground barley. These dishes, meant to be taken after hard labor, or intended especially for pregnant women (and, I suspect, as hangover cures), he called "restorants" or, in an alternative spelling, restaurants. Above his entrance Boulanger carved a motto in near-parody of the Gospels: "Venite ad me omnes qui stomacho laboris et ego vos restaurabo" (come to me all those whose stomachs labor and I shall restore you).  Catering in Paris at that time was organized along rigid medieval guild lines. As Boulanger was not a member of the corporation of "traiteurs" or of the "sauciers," he was forbidden to serve sauces or stews. He took a risk by offering a dish of sheep's trotters in a white sauce. The traiteurs sued, but Boulanger won. Parliament declared that, as he had not cooked the meat in the sauce, it was not a ragout. News of his victory traveled quickly, and Boulanger was transformed into a popular, if slightly ludicrous host, as Parisians flocked to pay too much for their dinners at what Diderot in 1767 could still refer to as "the restaurant."   
