20011104
 In Fight Against Terrorism, City Police Face Dilemma --- Striking a Balance Between Aggressive Policing and Privacy Protections   By By Jess Bravin, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 5, 2001  That sounds "damn reasonable," Mr. [Lawrence Rosenthal] says, "but the First Amendment protects your right to express sympathy with the enemies of this country." So police couldn't open a file even if a witness told them that "I was in a mosque this weekend and a guy I know who's really radical said, `A bunch of us are taking our instructions from Osama,' " Mr. Rosenthal says. "Unless the guy says, `We've got the anthrax and we're putting it in the mail this afternoon,' that guy is protected by the First Amendment."  In Seattle, the debate is over a 1979 ordinance restricting investigations into First Amendment activity. "It presents real problems for us," says police Lt. Ron Leavell, who heads Seattle's criminal intelligence squad. "Terrorism is by definition political," he says, and "there are too many opportunities to cloak criminal activity underneath religious or political messages." The ordinance directs an independent auditor to inspect police intelligence records and disclose their contents to investigation subjects if the auditor finds the files were collected improperly. That, says Lt. Leavell, makes "the FBI understandably reluctant to share things with us."  In other jurisdictions, law-enforcement officials are chafing under restrictions. In Oregon, state and federal prosecutors complain about a 2000 state Supreme Court decision that bars them from assisting police with wiretaps or undercover investigations, the rationale being that doing so would violate ethics rules against lawyer dishonesty. The U.S. Senate initially voted to exempt federal prosecutors from state ethics rules such as Oregon's, as part of Attorney General John Ashcroft's antiterrorism legislation. Despite support from the Justice Department and Sen. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.), however, lawmakers struck the provision from the final bill that President Bush signed last month.   
