20050420
 Boss Talk: Remote Control; How IBM's Ward Will Lead China's Largest PC Company From Other Side of the Globe   By Forelle, Charles, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 21, 2005  Mr. [STEVE WARD] hopes melding Lenovo's price discipline with IBM's engineering will parry Dell's formidable threat. Lenovo's management will be scattered across the globe. Mr. Ward and several dozen other top executives and operational staff will work from a new corporate headquarters in Westchester County, just down the road from IBM. Asia- based executives will sit in Beijing and Hong Kong. Many of the company's sales, marketing and engineering employees will be in Raleigh, N.C., and the ThinkPad design group will remain in Japan.  Mr. Ward: You'll see a greater emphasis on marketing for the customers we're selling the product to. Already you've seen over the last year from IBM's PC company a return to television advertising talking about specific differences among products. . . . Dell did a much better job of [marketing] than anyone else for a long time. The difference is we've got a pretty darn good story if what you care about is your ability to use the PC, not just your ability to buy the PC.  Mr. Ward: Two examples. One that's been shipping for several years is an innovation where it's a one-button CD player, one-button DVD player so the machine doesn't have to boot in order to play. Well, everyone ships that today. They've been doing that for years. Another one that's really very cool is a product for families that have only one PC. What happpens is the kids might like to play games -- if you've ever used a gaming PC what you do is you overclock the microprocessor and things are running like crazy and the fans are going [noisily]. This machine literally just has a dial in front, and when you turn the dial it underclocks the microprocessor. The fans turn off, and it's a silent machine to do word processing at night when everyone's asleep. It's not real complicated, but it's got value to people. And so Lenovo has sorted out how to take and target, and in many cases they'll have only one or two value differentiators on that product in order to get it down to the absolute best price.   
