20070706
 PURSUITS; Books -- Writer's Block: A Literary Geological Shift   By Otterspeer, Willem, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 7, 2007  [Willem Frederik Hermans] compared "Beyond Sleep" to "The Pilgrim's Progress," but [Alfred Issendorf]'s journey does not lead to the Eternal City; he arrives instead at the insight that man is the eternal loser of the universe. "A secret consciousness reveals itself," Alfred observes. "The veil of mystery shrouding life in its entirety lifts momentarily and I know that at all times and in everything I do I am defenceless and powerless, as replaceable as an atom, and that all my resolve, hopes and fears are nothing but manifestations of the mechanism governing the movements of human molecules in the fathomless vapour of cosmic matter."  The reader of "Beyond Sleep" is treated to an array of side stories, short essays and soliloquies. But whether Hermans is discussing man's identity or mere computers, his message is the same: Copying is the true nature of existence -- authenticity and originality are extremely rare. "Just as the iguanodon became extinct due to its size," one character remarks, "so will the human race die out from sheer redundancy." As if to underline the message, Hermans has Alfred spend much of his time looking at his mirrored reflection in his compass.  There is nothing careless about any of it. Hermans's oeuvre is marked by detached precision and brutal directness. And when Hermans had a chance to reflect on his published work, he often revised it in favor of even more precision. Almost every reprint of his novels came with Hermans's latest improvements. A note to the 15th printing of "Beyond Sleep" announced about 250 changes. Needless to say, he was often in conflict with his publisher -- which might help explain the shabby quality of the translations of his other work. Happily, Ina Rilke's translation of "Beyond Sleep" comes as near as possible to the real thing. In the Netherlands, we know that small literary worlds sometimes maintain well-kept secrets. Hermans has been ours -- one that we now gladly share.   
