20070402
 A Cultural Conversation With Alfred Brendel: 'What's Really Worth Playing' Now Is the Focus of His Efforts   By Mermelstein, David, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 3, 2007  Mr. [Alfred Brendel] has never made a name for himself as an exponent of modern scores, unless one counts Schoenberg's Piano Concerto, in which he distinguished himself for many years. But the pianist insists that it's wrong to assume he disdains new music. "I have always, since a spell of composing myself, been ardently interested in new music," he says. "And I've recommended the inclusion of contemporary works to young pianists. But, of course, there has been and are a number of great conductors and leading pianists who stay away from new music, and certainly not without reason, either because they did not feel convinced by it, or because their particular gifts did not reach in this direction. I greatly admire people like Pierre-Laurent Aimard, who is a wizard in playing 20th-century music and contemporary music. I take all my hats off. But very few people can combine both properly."  If the pianist has any professional regrets at this juncture, they would seem to be few. But one of them is the general absence of Bach from his repertory. "I promised that in my next life I should play more Bach," he says. Two things account for this void. The first is the overwhelming personality of [Edwin Fischer], his teacher. "He played some Bach pieces incomparably beautifully," Mr. Brendel recalls. The second was the emergence of period performance practice just as he was establishing himself as an artist. "There was then in the late 1950s, a very strong bias against playing Bach on the piano," he says. "Fortunately, this is not so anymore."  "I'm not going to play forever," Mr. Brendel says. "There is an end in sight, and what happens then, I don't know." Despite his age and eminence, he maintains that he does not consider himself any sort of sentinel. "I don't want to sound like someone who is the last exponent of something. I don't feel like that at all. There are some young musicians who carry on what I stand for, though not always the most famous. But there is no reason to think that high standards go down the drain."   
