20011206
 Painting Future Of Sotheby's Is A Difficult Art   By By Wall Street Journal staff reporters Ken Brown, Kathryn Kranhold and Brooks Barnes, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 7, 2001  No one wants the company to be sold more than Ron Baron, chief executive of Baron Capital, the largest outside shareholder of Sotheby's, with just over 50% of the shares outstanding. (Mr. [A. Alfred Taubman] controls the company because his ownership of the company's Class B shares allows him to appoint 75% of the board.) A sale of the company would free Mr. Baron from a money-losing investment. About 75,000 shares of Sotheby's trade on an average day; if he made up that volume daily, it would take Mr. Baron nearly 300 trading days to unload his 22-million-share stake, a move that would surely send the price plummeting.  Sotheby's has been hurt more recently by tough competition from Phillips, de Pury & Luxembourg. Phillips, the French auction house backed by luxury-goods businessman Bernard Arnault, which recently entered the high-end auction market and has won clients by promising sellers huge sums of money upfront. That, combined with the costs of the investigation, a restructuring to cut costs and a $45 million penalty the company paid to settle the legal case, caused Sotheby's losses over the past five quarters to total $232 million.  Sotheby's Mr. [Bill Ruprecht] says it is difficult to predict how the company would perform, because it doesn't have an inventory of finished products. "We're not in the business of manufacturing fire extinguishers," he says. "The products that we sell come to us in large groups from estates and from collectors who decide to sell." He adds that cost-cutting and improvements in Sotheby's operations will help the company over the next few years. "That will set us up for some really good opportunities when we see a lift in the art market," he says. Another plus for Sotheby's is that nearly all of its top art experts, who deal with the firm's big clients, have stayed through the investigation. There has been more turnover at rival Christie's, people in the industry say.   
