19980209
 A Case for Bombing Iraq Exists; Why Not Make It?   By By George Melloan, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 10, 1998  On CBS's "Face the Nation" Sunday, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said that the purpose of bombing Iraq would be to "diminish the ability of Saddam Hussein to make weapons of mass destruction." That was a stronger mission statement than the one her boss, Bill Clinton, had offered at his Friday joint press conference with British Prime Minister Tony Blair. Falling back on what he called a "clear mandate" from the world community, he proposed to "do what we can" to weaken Saddam's "ability to develop those weapons."  Mr. Clinton further diluted his stance by saying once again that he would prefer a "diplomatic solution" to the unleashing of American bombers. A "diplomatic solution" would of course involve Saddam relenting and letting U.N. weapons inspectors come back to Iraq to continue the same hide-and-seek game they have been playing these last seven years. The president could then claim to have backed Saddam down and Saddam could chortle at having forced the U.S. into an expensive redeployment of troops, ships and planes -- not to mention a depressing effort at rallying international support -- with little change in the status quo. That indeed is the most likely outcome at this point.  Getting the inspectors back in is essentially a cosmetic goal. The U.S. would be able to save face, saying that Saddam had bowed to the U.S. threat. Saddam would himself have an out, which is what diplomats like to give bad boys when they misbehave. The U.S. would be able to continue citing the 1991 U.N. Security Council resolution as its authority for demanding that Iraq throw open its weapons caches and production facilities for inspection. And should Saddam not take the escape hatch offered, bombing could be described as legal under a "clear mandate" of the world community, even if that world community seems to be having nervous tremors at the prospect.   
