20011202
 Name, Please: Surveyor Quietly Sells Student Information To Youth Marketer --- National Research Center Stresses Its College Ties -- Not Razors, Credit Cards --- Many Educators in the Dark   By By Daniel Golden, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 3, 2001  College admissions officers say that National Research's competition has forced the College Board to try more-aggressive marketing tactics. National Research mailings prod high schools to survey freshmen and sophomores, for example, "so you can get a jump-start on reaching them." It also does its testing at the beginning of the year, meaning it can send its survey results to colleges as much as three months sooner than the College Board. Trying to catch up, the College Board says it intends next year for the first time to sell names of freshman takers of the PSAT, a warm-up to the SAT. It also intends to introduce a "search on demand" feature enabling colleges to buy student names year-round.  American Student List pays National Research about $800,000 a year to help underwrite the survey's annual cost of more than $2 million, according to Mr. [Donald Damore] of American Student List. Mr. [Don M. Munce] won't confirm the dollar figures. But he says that funds from his two commercial customers represent less than 10% of National Research's total revenue, the rest of which comes from educational institutions. Who's Who declines to comment on what it pays for the survey names.  Wheaton Academy, a Christian high school in West Chicago, Ill., doesn't nominate students for Who's Who because guidance counselor Daniel Crabtree believes that colleges don't regard listing as a credential for admission. Nevertheless, because Mr. Crabtree administers the National Research survey to sophomores and juniors, about 10% of students there receive Who's Who solicitations annually. David Fiore, chief executive of Commemorative Brands, owner of Who's Who, says the nomination of one of these students, Paul Zeigler, came from the survey and from an "alternative source" he declined to identify.   
