20070103
 The Morning Brief: Deciphering the Move From DNI to State   By Joseph Schuman The Wall Street Journal Online, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 4, 2007  Still, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has had difficulty finding a replacement for former deputy Robert B. Zoellick, who left last summer for a post at Goldman Sachs. Mr. [John Negroponte] had refused past entreaties to take the job, and he wasn't the only one, as the Washington Post reports. And less than three weeks ago he told the Post he planned to stay at DNI through the end of the [Bush] presidency. Administration officials interviewed by the N.Y. Times wouldn't say "whether Mr. Negroponte was moving because the White House saw him as uniquely qualified for the diplomatic post, or because President Bush was dissatisfied with his performance as intelligence chief, or whether it was a combination of the two." But a senior U.S. official tells The Wall Street Journal he will be playing a central role in executing Mr. Bush's new strategy for Iraq.  In June, the board's compensation committee decided to review Mr. [Robert Nardelli]'s recompense, and he submitted a one-page list of perks he would give up that included personal use of Home Depot's six corporate jets, one person involved in the matter tells The Wall Street Journal. But he wouldn't negotiate on his guaranteed $3 million annual bonus and the hefty supplemental pension arrangement he had obtained. This was despite the fact that Mr. Nardelli "failed to reignite Home Depot's slowing sales and sagging stock price"; had an autocratic style that clashed with the company founders' freewheeling culture; and had exhibited "aggressive handling of the company's most recent annual meeting, where no outside directors were on hand and limits were set on shareholders' questions," which had outraged some investors, the Journal says.  Journal columnist Alan Murray argues Mr. Nardelli's exit came from his failure to understand how much a CEO's role has changed since the new millennium began. "In the post-Enron world, CEOs have been forced to respond to a widening array of shareholder advocates, hedge funds, private-equity deal makers, legislators, regulators, attorneys general, nongovernmental organizations and countless others who want a say in how public companies manage their affairs," Mr. Murray notes. "Today's CEO, in effect, has to play the role of a politician, answering to varied constituents. And it's in that role that Mr. Nardelli failed most spectacularly."   
