19930405
 Leslie Fay, Hobbled by Lenders' Curbs On Working Capital, Files for Chapter 11   By By Teri Agins, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 6, 1993  "In the last 10 days, the pressure from the banks has been mounting, and it has been difficult in terms of getting domestic piece goods," said Michael Babcock, Leslie Fay's chief operating officer, in an interview. He said that Chapter 11 protection would enable Leslie Fay to fill orders for its critical fall season on schedule. He said that Leslie Fay directors weighed the decision at meetings held Friday, Sunday and yesterday morning.  Leslie Fay's largest creditors, as listed in the bankruptcy-law filing, are as follows: The company's bank lenders as a group, led by Chemical Bank, which have total exposure of $230 million in direct borrowings and outstanding letters of credit. Other creditors are Prudential Insurance Co. of America and Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., who are holders of two series of notes totaling $75 million; and Leslie Fay's trade suppliers and factoring companies, which are owed about $25 million. "Unlike many other Chapter 11 situations, Leslie Fay's business is fundamentally sound," Mr. Babcock said. He noted that the bookings for the company's product lines are "higher than a year ago and at better profit margins." Leslie Fay's recently initiated restructuring plan, he added, includes tighter financial controls, elimination of unprofitable product lines, and more efficient administrative and manufacturing processes.  Leslie Fay also announced that its board had adopted a so-called shareholder rights plan, which kicks in after any one party accumulates 15% of the shares outstanding. Under this plan to thwart unfriendly takeovers, holders will have the right to receive 1 1/2 shares for each share of common stock held. Leslie Fay has about 19.2 million common shares outstanding. Its chairman and chief executive, John Pomerantz, is the company's largest shareholder. Mr. Pomerantz and his wife own about 8.7% of Leslie Fay's stock.   
