19971209
 Dance: A Ballerina's Swan Song   By By Joan Acocella, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 10, 1997  New York -- Just before Thanksgiving, Merrill Ashley, in a rain of flowers, retired from New York City Ballet, where she had danced for 31 years. Ms. Ashley was the most accomplished allegro ballet dancer of the late 20th century. She could do small, fast steps like nobody else. Watching her was like looking at classical ballet under a microscope. You saw not just the dance but all its little parts, each of them bright, distinct, complete. George Balanchine, who trained her, was known for changing the choreography of a ballet if a dancer found the steps too hard. For Ms. Ashley too he changed choreography: He made it harder. In her 1984 memoir "Dancing for Balanchine," she describes him rehearsing her in the ballerina role of his 1941 "Tchaikovsky Piano Concerto" and restoring steps that he had originally wanted but could never get any dancer to perform. "Nobody has been able to do, dear," he said. "You're the first one who can do."  As a young ballet student Ms. Ashley was very weak, but very determined, so she worked hard. She was a grind, a goody-goody. ("Miss Bun," the other kids called her.) And so she remained. Hers is probably the only ballerina memoir in history that contains photo inserts demonstrating correct and incorrect ways to perform classical steps. "I like trying to get each tiny detail right," she writes.  In the process, she noticed something that probably pained her more than anything else in her career. While Balanchine said he wanted rule-followers, he actually seemed to favor dancers who broke the rules or, as Ms. Ashley puts it, those who could "grasp the spirit of his laws while violating the letter." In other words, he really did like "ballerinas," notably Suzanne Farrell, the dancer with whom he was obsessed throughout the late 1960s. Ms. Ashley secretly watched the "instinctive dancers," as she calls them, and "tried to absorb their attitude."   
