19890206
 Takeovers Slash Corporate Overhead   By By Frank R. Lichtenberg, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 7, 1989  During the 1980s, there has been a rapid increase in both the overall rate of business-ownership change -- the value of companies changing owners grew almost sixfold between 1980 and 1986 -- and in the proportion of these transactions that are leveraged buy-outs. Judging from the extensive congressional hearings and proposals for legislation, many members of Congress are concerned that takeovers in general, and LBOs in particular, may hurt the efficiency or competitiveness of U.S. industry and its ability to withstand recession.  Using Census Bureau data on tens of thousands of business establishments, each observed over a period of years, we have measured the sales, employment, R&D and fixed investment, and other attributes of establishments changing owners both before and after the change, and contrasted them with establishments in the same industry not changing owners. We have used these data to test an important theory concerning the motives for, and consequences of, takeovers. The theory implies that ownership change generally increases efficiency and that in an important respect it reduces the firm's vulnerability to recession.  The most striking statistics that emerged from our analysis were these: The mean change in employment between 1977 and 1982 among 16,730 auxiliary establishments not changing owners was +3%, while the mean change among 2,027 establishments changing owners was -16%. Administrative offices involved in ownership changes experienced sharp declines, both absolute and relative, in employment. The difference in employment growth rates is highly statistically significant. The difference in the growth of R&D employment between establishments changing and not changing owners, however, was small and statistically insignificant. This suggests that the fear sometimes expressed that takeovers have an adverse effect on R&D spending and other long-term investments is unfounded.   
