20050902
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Taste: What They're Reading at the Kitchen Table   By Oppenheimer, Mark, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 2, 2005  [Elsie Dinsmore] is no favorite among secular or liberal home-schoolers. They, too, have a backward-looking impulse, but they're more interested in the return-to-nature aspects of the olden days than in corseted Victoriana. Pat Farenga, who has written several books on "unschooling," a movement that rejects formal curricula and lets children decide what to study, used to run a home-schoolers' bookstore in Cambridge, Mass. He says that his store's best sellers always included Noah Blake's 1805 book, "The Diary of an Early American Boy" -- which described old-fashioned crafts like nail-making and shingle- splitting. A more recent illustrated edition has been popular "because it has all these beautifully drawn pictures of how to do things before technology."  Mr. Farenga's store, which closed in 2001, drew Christians as well as secularists. One thing that his most popular books had in common, Mr. Farenga says, is that they tended to be "about kids...figuring things out for themselves. Not like 'Sesame Street,' with adults showing children how to do things." Mr. Farenga cites the popularity among home-schoolers of C.S. Lewis's "Chronicles of Narnia," both a seminal epic by a great Christian apologist and an adventure tale of self-sufficient children, with their parents conspicuously absent.  [Laura Ingalls Wilder]'s only competitor in the home-schooling popularity contest would be George Alfred Henty, an Englishman and contemporary of Queen Victoria who wrote about 70 books in which teenage boys get caught up in great happenings, from the Crusades to the American Civil War, and speak in bonny words to natives. Every few chapters, a boy's courage and honor are tested, but with the aid of God and his conscience he most often does the righteous, manful thing. It's Walter Scott for Victorian younguns, and today's home-schoolers eat it up. PrestonSpeed, a Pennsylvania publishing house founded in 1996 to bring Henty's works back into print, has sold about 25,000 copies of each of the 45 books they've so far reissued.   
