19980820
 World Watch   By Compiled by Paul J. Deveney, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 21, 1998  At a time when a host other Japanese companies are facing difficult times, one of that nation's biggest auto makers managed to pull off the most profitable first quarter in its history. Honda Motor reported that its consolidated pretax profit jumped 28% for the three months ended June 30 to 137.7 billion yen ($955.8 million) on a 12% increase in sales. With continued weak auto markets in Japan and Southeast Asia, a big part of the gains were attributed to strong sales in other parts of the world, primarily North America and Europe. The group also had to give some credit for its performance to the weak Japanese currency: Honda attributed 16 billion yen of its operating profit to foreign-exchange fluctuations. But even without the currency gains, Honda's earnings would have increased 13% from a year earlier.  The Indian currency ended the trading day stronger against the dollar, but dealers are predicting that the effort to stabilize the rupee hasn't been decisively won -- at least not yet. The Reserve Bank of India, the central bank, raised its repo rate three percentage points to 8% and sold dollars to support the rupee after it hit a record low. The central bank also increased banks' required cash-reserve ratio to 11% from 10% and even warned exporters that they wouldn't be allowed to delay their remittances. The rupee has been under intense pressure from political instability at home, declining exports because of the Asian crisis, as well as a sovereign-credit-rating downgrade and the announcement of sanctions by the U.S. earlier this year after India conducted nuclear tests.  The strategy of shifting away from the beleaguered Asian market appears to have worked for Australia's Qantas Airways. The carrier's earnings jumped 21% for the year ended June 30 to 304.8 million Australian dollars ($180.4 million). The latest results were better than most analysts expected, though the airline may not be out of the woods entirely. It warned that increased volatility in the very region it has been retreating from will affect its bottom line in the coming fiscal year, choking off further profit growth. Qantas was quick to move when problems surfaced, suspending its operations in South Korea and cutting its role in other troubled markets, including Thailand, Indonesia and Japan. The extra seating capacity it gained from those retrenchments was quickly shifted to its U.S. and European routes and to emerging markets such as India and China.   
