20021104
 The Next Great Divide   By By John Steele Gordon, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 5, 2002  Significant segments of the American body politic do not like this. Yet global trade, with dirt-cheap communication, is the irrefutable norm. The currency market is more influential in controlling inflation than the world's central banks. However, while the world economy is integrating, economic cultures are often not. Twice in recent years, mergers of U.S. companies, approved by U.S. antitrust authorities, have been nixed by the European Union. And divides such as these seem almost benign when compared with international disagreement -- mirrored in our own Republican vs. Democrat debates -- over an appropriate response to global terrorism.  Sovereignty has been a national political fetish in this country since the Revolution. In 1812, we went to war with the greatest naval power precisely because we felt our sovereignty infringed on the high seas. How, and how quickly, to cede sovereignty to global regulatory bodies might well become the next great divide in American politics. Here, of course, a distinction will quickly emerge between economic sovereignty, which will be diluted, and "security" sovereignty, by which the U.S. will insist on the right to act unilaterally in its own interests. Witness, here, the discourse on Iraq.  A second great divide opened in 1824, this one sectional, and the old Republican Party split into the National Republicans (who evolved into the Whigs) and the Democratic-Republicans, who became the Democrats. The South, heavily dependent on cotton exports and needing to import industrial goods, wanted a low tariff. The North wanted a high tariff to protect its new industries from British competition. While the tariff issue continued to divide politics, it was overtaken by slavery. In the 1850s, as the sectional divide deepened relentlessly, the Whigs faded, to be replaced by a new party, the Republicans, founded explicitly to oppose slavery. Yet it was the Civil War, not politics, that ended the second divide. After the war, national political campaigns became once more nasty, personal and close. And as in 1824, the election of 1876 failed to produce a winner and ended up in the House.   
