20000702
 Economists Split on Fed Strategy to Curb Inflation --- Survey Puts Analysts Into Two Camps on Whether Rate Moves Can Engineer a Soft Landing   By By Constance Mitchell Ford, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 3, 2000  That isn't the only threat that economists see. Some wonder how corporate profits -- which have helped to power the stock market in recent years -- could fare as the economy shifts into a slower gear. Although slower growth could keep inflation from accelerating, it might also cause profits to weaken. Slower GDP means "smaller volume gains and smaller productivity improvements. Add to this higher wage and benefit costs and the outcome could be very anemic profits growth next year -- both absolutely and relative to what the equity markets are expecting," Mr. [Nicholas S Perna] says.  For most economists, the major threat facing the U.S. economy in the future isn't slower profit growth. It is the current-account deficit, the widest measure of international transactions and foreign trade. That deficit rose to a record $102.3 billion in the first quarter and now is running at a record 4.3% of GDP.  Ian Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., outlines this possible scenario. "If the Fed inadvertently overdoes the tightening and induces a recession, the expected returns on real U.S. assets and equities will fall sharply," chasing away foreign investors who have helped to finance the deficit. "Of course, a recession would compress imports too and so the deficit would shrink, but it's hard to envisage a recession that does not drive the dollar down substantially. This would then raise the specter of the Fed having to hold rates higher, for longer than domestic conditions appear to dictate, in order not to accommodate a rise in import prices -- a very unpleasant scenario for just about everyone." Mr. Shepherdson isn't suggesting that will happen, only that it is a possible risk. Many other economists named the current-account deficit as a potential threat.   
