20050104
 NASD Disciplines Firms, Individuals   By Sabatini, Lisa, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 5, 2005  Sumner Harrington Ltd., Minnetonka, was fined $60,000, jointly and severally with principal Kim Edward Elverud, Bloomington, and required to submit all advertisements and sales literature relating to the specific products or services prepared by or for the firm or its affiliates to the NASD's advertising regulation department for approval prior to distribution to the public, for a period of nine months. The firm also was required to retain an outside consultant to review and make recommendations concerning the adequacy of the firm's current policies and procedures as they relate to suitability under NASD rules and federal securities laws. Mr. Elverud was suspended from association with any NASD member in any capacity for 20 days. Upon completion of the suspension in any capacity, Mr. Elverud will be suspended from acting in any supervisory capacity or as a trainer of personnel with any NASD member for nine months. Mr. Elverud was also required to requalify by examination as a Series 24 principal before the completion of the nine-month supervisory suspension. Principal William Eugene Casey, St. Paul, was fined $5,000, suspended from association with any NASD member in any capacity for 20 days and required to requalify by examination as a Series 24 principal within three months or cease serving in that capacity. Without admitting or denying the allegations, the firm and Messrs. Elverud and Casey consented to the entry of findings that the firm, acting through Messrs. Elverud and Casey, made unsuitable recommendations to public customers regarding securities offerings without having reasonable grounds for believing the recommendations were suitable for particular customers upon the basis of the facts disclosed prior to the transactions, and failed to make reasonable efforts to obtain additional information concerning the customer's financial status, investment objectives and other information relevant to making a determination as to suitability. The findings also stated that the firm received compensation in connection with the offerings and failed to provide any explanation or documentation to the NASD describing changes in the firm's underwriting compensation. In addition, the firm's advertising revenue was not disclosed in the offering materials distributed to the investing public. The NASD also found that the firm's investment kits and advertisements failed to disclose that the firm was to receive commissions for its underwriting efforts and its advertising material, and that credit agencies had downgraded an issuer's credit rating or that the company's notes carried more risk. In addition, the NASD found that the firm failed to disclose adequately consideration it received from securities issuers or the amount thereof in connection with notices, circulars and advertisements distributed to the investing public. Moreover, the NASD found that the firm's written supervisory procedures failed to address adequately suitability determinations for compliance with NASD Rule 2310. Furthermore, the NASD found that the firm, through Mr. Elverud, failed to establish and maintain adequate procedures for the supervision of suitability determinations and to supervise adequately and monitor Mr. Casey's suitability determinations; Mr. Casey, in turn, failed to supervise adequately and monitor suitability determinations made by another employee under his charge.   
