20050505
 Blair Appears Set For a Third Term, With Less Clout   By Champion, Marc, The Wall Street Journal,  May 6, 2005  Early returns suggested many of Labour's lost votes went to the Liberal Democrats, the only major party to have opposed the Iraq war. However, due to Britain's electoral system, more of the early seats that Labour lost were picked up by the Conservatives. Later BBC projections based on results early Friday morning forecast a Labour Party majority of 72 seats. Such a majority for Labour would be considerably less than many opinion polls had projected. It also would be a tainted victory for Mr. [Tony Blair]. Accepting his own re-election to parliament, Mr. Blair acknowledged in a subdued speech that Iraq had split the country and said it was clear "that the British people wanted the return of a Labour government but with a reduced majority."  A third successive election victory is a rare achievement for any British party, but a reduced Labour vote on the scale suggested by the exit poll will not amount to approval for Mr. Blair's decision to go to war in Iraq. Mr. Blair also has been criticized for his close relationship with President Bush, but he is unlikely to try to distance himself from Mr.Bush in a new term and few changes are expected to Britain's overall foreign policy as long as Mr. Blair is in charge. He is, though, expected to continue promoting policies that have sometimes brought him into conflict with the U.S., such as the Middle East peace process and a global agreement on climate change.  Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy warned voters that, if elected, Mr. Blair would be a "lame duck." Yet the incumbent has bounced back many times before. He will need all of his considerable political skills to win a referendum on whether to ratify the European Union's new draft constitution, which he has promised for 2006. Opinion polls consistently say Britons oppose the constitution by two- to-one. The Conservatives promised to campaign against the constitution and, if elected, to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU. "Whether he wins or loses on the constitution, there'll be pressure on Blair to step down," says Patrick Dunleavy, professor of government at the London School of Economics.   
