19810517
MEXICO CITY— Luis Echeverria Alvarez apparently learned a year before the rest of Mexico that he would become President in 1970. And Jose Lopez Portillo knew four months before any announcement was made that he would succeed Mr. Echeverria. Today, one of Mr. Lopez Portillo's ministers may already know that he will be Mexico's President from 1982 to 1988. But with the name of the Presidential candidate of the Institutional Revolutionary Party - and, therefore, of the next president - not expected to be made public for another six months, everyone else is in the dark.  Thus, the mysterious and fascinating ritual of the Mexican succession must still be played out. It is a masked ball in which loyalty, astuteness and nerves are fiercely tested, yet no politician can resist participating. Only one thing is certain: President Lopez  Portillo will pick the winner. But no one knows what criteria will guide his choice and, in fact, not even Mr. Lopez Portillo can predict his successor's performance. Dedicated now to ingratiating himself with the President, he will show his true face only when he takes office on December 1 next year.  Yet even these political realities are obscured from the public by a barrage of well-nurtured myths. It is the party, the argument goes, and not the President, that will pick the official nominee for the July 1982 elections. He will then travel the country seeking votes before facing two or three other candidates on polling day. And he will win, of course, because he will be the most popular.  In reality, Institutional Revolutionary Party candidates don't lose. They have won every election for President, governor and federal senator in the party's 52 years of existence. Yet the observance of the forms of democracy have been crucial in bringing Mexico its coveted political stability. Elections are held every six years, not so much to choose the new leader as to prevent the incumbent from perpetuating himself in office. With power institutionalized rather than personalized, Mexico has resolved the problem of succession.  In office, the President is held in awe, controlling the legislature and the judiciary as well as the huge bureaucracy, and is regarded as a symbol of national unity who is above personal criticism. In practice, however, his power is circumscribed by the private sector, organized labor and the army. Rather than to dictate, his role is to conciliate. His single greatest power, in fact, is to pick his successor.  Expecting to be Surprised  Former President Echeverria recently revealed that he informed Mr. Lopez Portillo of his selection four months before the party officially named him its candidate in September 1975. ''I had no doubt, at the decisive moment, who should be my successor,'' he wrote. ''I was aware that the country's main problem was financial and obviously my finance minister should be the one to face this.''  But the country's politicians were stunned. Not only had four of the five previous presidents come from the Interior Ministry and not only had no Finance Minister become president this century, but Mr. Echeverria had led everyone to believe he would pick between two other ministers around whom most politicians had rallied. The surprise last time insured that no front-runner would emerge this year. Nevertheless, the period leading to the ''destapamiento,'' or conference, that Mr. Lopez Portillo will preside over in October is crucial. All leading politicians and bureaucrats must line up behind a ''pre-candidate,'' who, if selected, will reward this loyalty with a good job. The object, then, is to scrutinize the President's every remark for hints of his preference before gambling an expression of support.  This time, there are numerous themes to the speculation. Some analysts argue that, after the populism of Mr. Echeverria and the conservative economics of Mr. Lopez Portillo, the next President will be more reformist. Others insist that, following the present technocratic orientation, the time has come for politicians to govern again. More than a few politicians are convinced that Mr. Lopez Portillo will pick an old friend to carry on his policies.  By now, in fact, every leading aspirant has a reason that he might - or might not - be chosen. Miguel de la Madrid Hurtado, the Harvardeducated Minister of Planning and Budget, is said to think like the President, but he has little political experience. Pedro Ojeda Paullada, the Minister of Labor, has the backing of the powerful pro-Government unions, but is identified with the still-controversial Mr. Echeverria. Enrique Olivares Santana, the Interior Minister, is an old political operator, but seems ill-prepared to manage the complex economy.  Other names are also mentioned. Jorge de la Vega Dominguez, the Commerce Minister, is experienced in both politics and economic affairs, but the public blames him for Mexico's current high inflation. Jorge Diaz Serrano has won accolades for his management of Pemex, the state oil monopoly, but his minimal political experience and previous ties to the private sector are considered drawbacks.  One politician, Javier Garcia Paniagua, rose so rapidly during this administration that, in the unlikely post of Minister of Agrarian Reform, he too seemed a strong contender, not least because of close links with the army. In March, however, he was suddenly named president of the Institutional Revolutionary Party and fell out of the race. Yet, in a system where the unexpected should be expected, neither he nor the barely-mentioned Finance Minister David Ibarra Munoz nor Education Minister Fernando Solana has been totally discarded.  Unlike Mr. Lopez Portillo, who was unopposed in 1976, the official nominee next year can expect to be challenged. At present, Mexico has seven legal political parties; perhaps two more will be registered by next year. Of these, at least three will probably endorse the I.R.P. candidate, but the conservative National Action Party and the Mexican Communist Party are certain to field their own candidates.  Ironically, the Government is encouraging challenges, on grounds that a more active campaign could reverse the growing trend of not voting. Officials hope that a three-way race could help rejuvenate the official party by forcing it to court voters, rather than simply awaiting its anticipated victory.  Illustrations: photo of President Jose Lopez Portillo 
