19820627
WASHINGTON IT is the largest business lobbying group in business-minded America. Secure in its stately headquarters on Lafayette Park, directly opposite the White House, the United States Chamber of Commerce seems impregnable in its new-found power and influence. At a hint from the Chamber, its membership of 250,000 companies, up from 100,000 only a year and a half ago, can deluge Capitol Hill with thousands of letters and tie up the phones in legislators' offices for hours. A word from 1615 H Street on a Congressional race, and a candidate can reportedly wake up with $100,000 in his or her campaign chest.  The influence of the Chamber, which has an annual budget of $60 million, goes well beyond Washington. Its weekly television show is broadcast to 90 percent of the country, and its magazine, Nation's Business, has seven million paid subscribers, more than any other business journal. And beginning next October, its new $6 million satellite television network, called the American Business Network, will start beaming five hours a day of pro-business programming to members around the country.  But all is not serene in this high temple of capitalism. The Chamber's fast-growing activism - some say partisanship - and its die-hard support of supply-side economics - some say ideological rigidity - have begun to cause trouble among its friends in the business world.  Its tough-minded president, Richard L. Lesher, who is sometimes called the John Wayne of the boardroom, has also irritated top corporate leaders. Many of the Chamber's members fear that Mr. Lesher, who is widely credited with breathing life into the organization, is now moving the Chamber away from the mainstream of business thought. Some executives even contend that his current policies threaten to erase the Chamber's hard-fought victories over the past few years.  Although virtually no top executives would discuss their uneasiness with the Chamber and Mr. Lesher on the record, there is discontent in abundance, and on several occasions the unrest has bubbled up to the surface. One notable example is the publication of the Chamber's political ''hit list,'' which urges the defeat of dozens of legislators who do not see eye-to-eye with its conservative philosophy. The list, suggesting business contributions to candidates in Congressional races this year, recommends support for only a few Democrats, and even targets a number of moderate Republicans for not being sufficiently pro-business.  Many of the Chamber's board members have expressed concern about the wisdom of fingering politicians who in their opinion can in no way be labeled antibusiness. After the list marked for defeat Senator James Sasser, a Tennessee Democrat, W.H. Krome George, the chairman and chief executive officer of the Aluminum Company of America, quickly ''made some phone calls'' on Mr. Sasser's behalf, according to the Senator's staff. Shortly thereafter, Mr. George resigned from his seat on the Chamber's board, a highly unusual step. An Alcoa spokesman later said that Mr. George left his post primarily because ''he felt policy decisions on a wide variety of issues were being made without adequate referral to standing committees or individual member companies.'' THE Chamber's position on taxes, once in line with the business e stablishment, has also grown to be a sore spot. Experienced c orporate lobbyists say that its uncompromising stand against any s ignificant tax increases, despite the Administration's decision to r aise new revenues (at the urging of every other major business groupi n Washington) has isolated the Chamber not only from the business l obbying community, but more importantly from the White House itself.  ''They're as lonely as all hell,'' said one Washington-based business leader, who asked to remain anonymous, referring to the Chamber's unyielding stance against any tax increases. Indeed, while other lobbying groups have been trooping to the White House calling for a reduction of the Federal deficit through selected tax increases, the Chamber now talks to Reagan Administration officials alone and less frequently than it used to.  ''In the last month their position has not been very helpful to us,'' said Wayne Valis, a White House aide who coordinates meetings between business leaders and Administration officials. ''They are essentially out of the business coalition on taxes. I still see them separately, but since we know their position we don't have to meet with them as often as last year,'' he said, referring to the leading role that the Chamber played in President Reagan's battle to cut taxes.  So concerned is one major corporate member over the Chamber's actions that it recently commissioned a public relations firm to do a quiet, behind-the-scenes evaluation of whether the organization may be losing some of its effectiveness. Norman Gelman of Neumyer Associates in Washington confirmed that the firm has completed such a study, although he declined to identify the sponsor. ''We did get some mixed reactions,'' Mr. Gelman said. ''Some people strongly support them, and others feel strongly the other way.'' 1 2 3 NEXT PAGE > 
