19810324
WASHINGTON, March 23— The Reagan Administration has estimated that nearly one-fifth of the 3.8 million families on welfare would be made ineligible for benefits or have them reduced as a result of its budget proposals before Congress.  In a detailed state-by-state analysis now circulating on Capitol Hill, the Department of Health and Human Services says that 400,836 families would become ineligible for Aid to Families with Dependent Children and that an additional 258,528 families would lose some benefits if the Administration's proposals were enacted.  In New York State, the Administration says, 15,221 of the 364,046 families on welfare would lose all their benefits, and an additional 19,367 families would lose some welfare aid. 'We Are Retargeting Program'  The number of families in New Jersey who would lose all their welfare benefits would be 11,777 of 145,813, while 13,638 families would lose some benefits. In Connecticut, 8,019 of 45,968 families would lose all their benefits, while 3,836 would lose some, according to the Administration.  As 70 percent of the $11 billion a year provided in Aid to Families with Dependent Children is spent on children, the bulk of those affected by the cuts are expected to be youngsters. There are 771,459 children on welfare in New York, 317,685 in New Jersey and 95,218 in Connecticut.  A ranking welfare official at the Department of Health and Human Services insisted that the ''needy'' would not be affected by the cuts. ''We are retargeting the program so as to affect people with the least resources,'' said the official, who asked to remain anonymous. Eligibility Varies by State  Although the more than 658,000 families to be affected were nominally below the poverty level, the official said that more than half of the families were above the poverty level if ''in-kind'' income, such as food stamps, housing subsidies, Medicaid and other things, was taken into account.  The official also said that the bulk of the other families to be affected would also be considered above the poverty level if Congress adopted several Administration welfare measures, such as counting stepparents' income for the first time and eliminating welfare elegibility for children 18 to 20 years old.  Most of the households receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children earn less than $8,410 for a family of four, a figure that the Government considers the poverty line.  Currently, welfare eligibility varies from state to state, depending on the amount of money earned in each family. In California, for example, the maximum amount of money that a family of four may earn each month and still be eligible for welfare is $1,133.40. In Mississippi, the figure is $383.97, and in New York it is $957.30.  As the Administration's projections reached Congress, the National Urban Coalition, an umbrella group for 20 trade unions, child welfare organizations and social welfare agencies, issued a report assessing the impact of the overall budget cuts on the poor. Cut in Food Program Assessed  At least 700,000 would be dropped from a supplemental food program for women and children, the coalition said, more than 8 million of 15 million school children may lose school lunches and as many as 1.5 million children in urban areas would be removed from compensatory education programs.  The coalition, which includes the United States Conference of Mayors, the Children's Defense Fund and the American Federation of Teachers, said that in 15 states welfare benefits for a family of three were under $250 a month. The highest benefit level for a family of three - typically, a mother and two children - is $468, and eight states provide a benefit of more than $400 a month.  ''Because these cuts would affect mostly poor working families who are receiving A.F.D.C. to supplement their meager earnings, they would be concentrated on less than 20 percent of the families receiving aid in any given month,'' said the coalition, citing the Administration's proposals to focus the cuts on families earning income as well as receiving welfare.  It added: ''The full impact of the proposals will be even greater since families who become totally ineligible for A.F.D.C. as a result of the changes will lose their Medicaid benefits if they live in states where eligibility for Medicaid depends on eligibility for cash assistance.'' 
