20020303
 World Watch   By Compiled by Lily H. Li, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 4, 2002  Swiss voters narrowly approved joining the United Nations, reluctantly letting go of the international aloofness that has defined this Alpine country for centuries. The vote split the nation along its traditional French-German, urban-rural lines. The French-speaking cantons voted for U.N. membership along with the urban German-speaking cantons. The smaller, more rural German-speaking cantons, and the southern Italian-speaking region, voted against the measure. While about 55% of the voters said "yes" to the U.N., the cantonal vote was razor thin: 12 for and 11 against. (Switzerland has 26 cantons, but six of the smaller ones count only a half-vote; thus, there are 23 total canton votes.) The referendum needed both a popular and canton majority to pass. Switzerland will now become the 190th member of the U.N. Until yesterday's narrow approval, Switzerland was the only state, along with the Vatican, to remain voluntarily outside the world body.  Libyan Arab Foreign Investment has taken a 2% stake in Fiat, becoming one of the top 10 shareholders of the Italian car maker, Lafico announced Friday. The Libyans, who bought up the shares on the stock market, haven't asked for a board seat, while Fiat owner Gianni Agnelli welcomed the financial investment. The Agnelli family owns about 35% of Fiat, with six other shareholders, including Lafico, each holding from 2% to 3%.The investment isn't the first one by Lafico in Fiat. In a move that brought strong protests from the U.S., the Libyan investment group bought a 15% interest in Fiat in 1976 and sold it 10 years later.  The U.S. and Canada are discussing a deal to place new limits on softwood-lumber trade, which would end punitive U.S. duties that have been at the center of a yearlong dispute, officials in both countries said Friday. Canadian International Trade Minister Pierre Pettigrew in Ottawa said there had been substantial progress in recent weeks in lumber-trade talks, which were prompted by Washington's duties on Canadian lumber that the U.S. says are punishment for illegal subsidies of Canadian wood being dumped in the U.S. Ottawa denies the charges but has been willing to discuss timber-industry reforms. The centerpiece of the deal under discussion would be a new export tax, to be collected by Canada, on softwood lumber destined for the U.S., according to two U.S. people familiar with the situation.   
