19840217
To the Editor:  Your editorial of Feb. 6 ''The Rush to Misjudgment on Crime'' accurately assesses Senate passage of the comprehensive crime bill last week as an election-year display that the senators are ''tough on crime.''  We disagree, however, that the sentencing provisions of the bill will ''really fight crime,'' as you indicate. We also wish to raise some important points about preventive detention not mentioned in your editorial.  The Senate ''solution'' to crime is to lock up more people for longer periods of time. The long-range implications are unaffordable - building a single cell costs up to $150,000; incarcerating someone for a year costs up to $30,000 - and ineffective.  The U.S. already has the third-highest rate of imprisonment in the industrialized world. Numerous studies indicate that incarceration neither deters crime nor rehabilitates. But it does produce angry and bitter people, ill-equipped upon release to function in the world.  The Senate also thinks it can reduce crime by allowing judges to hold an accused person in jail for months - before any trial has taken place - if they decide that the person is ''dangerous.'' This abolishes the cherished principle that a person is presumed innocent until proven guilty. A Justice Department study reveals that predictions of dangerousness are wrong between 50 and 95 percent of the time and that only 1.9 percent of all defendants released before trial are convicted of and imprisoned for serious crimes committed while on release.  The highly disproportionate rate of imprisonment of black people in this country reflects the racism within our criminal justice system. Preventive detention will exacerbate this situation, for a judge's determination of whether someone is ''dangerous'' is likely to be heavily weighted with race and class biases. But not one liberal Democratic senator opposed this bill. Only Senator Mathias, a Republican from Maryland, had the courage and determination to speak up about the prison overcrowding that is sure to result, and offer a positive alternative sentencing scheme.  The sentencing bills introduced in the House by Representatives Rodino and Conyers contain constructive alternative approaches which warrant thoughtful consideration. We hope that the members of the House will be more willing than their Senate colleagues to study the relationship between sentencing and the incidence of crime, vengeance and justice, and the role that racism plays throughout our criminal justice system.  Such discussion is vital to the development of a Federal criminal justice policy that protects our constitutional rights while recognizing the problem of crime in our society. STEPHANIE G. FARRIOR  Coordinator, National Committee  Against Repressive Legislation Washington, Feb. 6, 1984  drawing 
