20020609
 E-Commerce (A Special Report): Cover Story --- Where the Money Is: A handful of foundations are providing the seed capital for changing the health-care system   By By Laura Landro, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 10, 2002  Though foundation money is no substitute for the risk capital needed to launch new technology into the health-care market, foundations can provide early funds for crucial studies on how new technologies and systems work in a hospital, clinic or doctor's office. That, in turn, could draw investment from the private sector back to ideas that show promise. And because so many hospitals and health-care systems are in dire financial straits just as the pressure to improve quality is building, programs like Robert Wood Johnson's $20.9 million Pursuing Perfection grants for hospitals are providing a way to investigate innovations that might not otherwise be feasible to undertake.  As the largest foundation devoted to improving U.S. health care, Robert Wood Johnson often sets the standard for the rest of the philanthropic world. The Pursuing Perfection program emerged in the aftermath of the 1999 Institute of Medicine report "To Err Is Human," which cited high levels of errors throughout health care. Together with the Boston-based Institute for Healthcare Improvement, Robert Wood Johnson designed Pursuing Perfection to encourage hospitals to redesign the way they do business, with the aim of eliminating errors altogether and creating new standards for quality control.  Robert Wood Johnson and other foundations such as the California HealthCare Foundation and the Commonwealth Fund are also eager to fund more scientific scrutiny of the Internet's impact on health, and the quality of online information. To try to answer such questions, the foundation will shortly put out a call for proposals for a new Health e-Technologies program looking into how the Internet and other information technology work in areas such as patient behavior and chronic disease. Initially the program will give out about $7.25 million in grants. Meanwhile, the Stanford program Robert Wood Johnson is funding looks at whether patients can use the Internet to help them manage their own chronic diseases.   
