19820331
MOST suppliers of commercials to adland - those wooers of agencies and advertisers -frequently have to use fairly elaborate ploys to get potential customers together to make a pitch. There is much wining and dining. Elaborate presentations.  Not so with Dick Orkin and Bert Berdis, who have harnessed the power of humor to the dynamic force of advertising for the wireless medium. In other words, they write and read funny radio commercials. They are also funny people and their presentations are grabbers. The people of adland are even willing to go so far as to pick up the lunch tab for Dick and Bert in order to hear them.  And even though there is a waiting line for their advertising services, the Hollywood-based pair take an annual tour of the hustings to maintain the demand level.  They were at the Sherry Netherland Hotel yesterday, resting from dispensing drolleries in Atlanta and Birmingham, Ala., and preparing to tape a ''Today'' show appearance. Then they travel to Memphis for a few more commercially oriented yucks and then back home to watch Dick's wife, Bunny, open a croissant shop.  As you might gather from the itinerary, they find humor universal, no matter what the client says about the need to tailor scripts to the old, the young and unsophisticated or the farm crowd.  The missionary work, according to Mr. Orkin, is intended to convince the advertisers of the nation that Dick and Bert are a real company, ''not just a couple of guys working out of a basement'' and that ''small and medium-sized companies can afford us.''  When they started in business together a decade ago in Chicago, Bert, coming out of the agency world where he was a copywriter and creative director, and Dick, from being a career radio man, humor in advertising was in bad repute, they said. The Bert and Harry TV commercials were failing to do anything for Piels and the funny Alka-Seltzer spots were doing little to help that product's market share. People were blaming the advertising, when actually other factors were affecting sales.  These days, the pair is convincing many companies that the way to break through the advertising clutter on radio is with humorous dialogue.  ''We've sold everything with humor, except politicians,'' Mr. Berdis said. ''Perhaps they're funny already and don't need help,'' added Mr. Orkin, who is the one with the mustache and at 46 is three years older than his colleague.  He and his partner do not always adhere to the conventional wisdom, especially with the thinking that suggests that using the jingles from TV commercials as radio spots is a way of increasing the reach and frequency of the message and at a fraction of the price.  To that, either one or the other will say questioningly, ''If people hear it.'' Mr. Orkin said that music is what most people are listening to on radio anyway, so that a jingle merely becomes part of the background. Jingles are the way an advertiser goes when he has a little money and wants radio advertising. That is one step up, he said, from writing a piece of copy and letting an announcer read it, something that is done when you have no money.  When do you have money, as little as $2,000 for three local spots or up to $10,000 for a national campaign, then go see Dick and Bert, and they or one of their three writers will come up with something with production values. The humor is not based on one-liners, but rather on ridiculous bits of dialogue, usually using a confrontational format.  When they first went into business they offered to fix up radio commercial scripts for agencies. The pair did this for about five years. It turned out to be such a bad scene that they changed their operating procedure. No more doctoring. Only creating the whole package.  The turning point in their careers came when Young & Rubicam turned to them for a radio campaign for Time magazine, which was so successful that it attracted I.B.M., Du Pont, Gulf and Western and ''more banks than you can imagine.''  ''They felt that humor was a way of softening up their image,'' Mr. Orkin said, ''and it showed them that radio was a more powerful medium than they expected.''  The Astoria Federal Savings and Loan Association in New York is one of the local clients whose advertising success they point to with pride, and so is Granada, the TV set leasers.  Banks happen to be one of several categories of local institutions that can avail themselves of syndicated advertising, something that Dick and Bert got into a few years back after a variety of automobile dealers asked for campaigns similar to one the Hollywood flashes were doing for Weil Olds in Libertyville, Ill.  So Dick and Bert now offer the same advertising - only the names have been changed to support the advertiser - to any auto dealer with the price. There is also advertising for clothing stores, sporting goods and restaurants. The ads are sold by First-Com in Dallas, founded by Jim Long, a former jingle maker.  Unlike the recession of the seventies, when Dick and Bert found a lot of new clients on their doorsteps looking to stretch budgets, this time around ''they're holding onto their money,'' Mr. Orkin said.  And although he may not leave you laughing, you will at least be breathing a sigh at the news that he feels the grip on the money is relaxing.  Illustrations: Photo of Bert Berdis and Dick Orkin 
