19810611
WASHINGTON, June 10— As many as a million college students would become ineligible for federally guaranteed educational loans under budget restrictions approved today by the House Education and Labor Committee.  The panel's proposal was more stringent than one also approved today by the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources as the two panels sought to comply with mandates for more than $12 billion in reductions in a broad array of programs under their jurisdiction.  In tightening eligibility for student loans, which are currently available to students from all family income levels, Democrats on the House committee repeatedly complained that they were acting under duress. A 'Pearl Harbor' for Students  ''Today may be remembered by hundreds of thousands of students around the country as the Pearl Harbor Day of education in the United States,'' said Representative Peter A. Peyser, Democrat of Westchester.  As approved by the House committee, federally guaranteed and subsidized student loans would be available only to those from families with annual incomes of up to $25,000.  The Senate committee's plan would permit loans to students from families earning more than $25,000 a year but only when they can demonstrate actual need. Both the Senate and House plans were approved as part of overall budget-cutting packages.  Democrats on the House committee, as well as some of the panel's Republicans, vowed to seek to undo at least part of the loan restrictions on the House floor. They said that they would offer amendments on the loan plan, as well as other budget reductions they were forced to make today in their mandated quest for total cutbacks.  Even if the full House refuses to ease the student loan cuts, it is possible that the Senate committee's less stringent loan plan could be agreed to in Senate-House conference on the overall budget bill.  House committee experts say that the House panel's proposal would reduce student loan volume to $3.6 billion from the current level of about $7.9 billion. A million or more of the three million students who currently receive such loans would become ineligible.  Under the current loan program, students can borrow up to $2,500 a year, regardless of family income, with the Federal Government guaranteeing repayment to the lending institutions in the event of default by the borrower. Interest on such loans is paid by the Federal Government while students are in school, with the student assuming interest and principal costs after leaving school. New Fee Is Planned  Seeking even further trimming of student loan costs, both the Senate and House panels voted today to require borrowers to pay an initial fee - 5 percent in the Senate version and 3 1/2 percent in the House plan - in obtaining loans.  For example, if a student borrows $2,000, the initial fee under the House plan would be $70, payable at the time the loan is taken out. That $70 would be used to reduce that amount of subsidy that the Federal Government otherwise would pay.  Both the Senate and House committees also voted to raise the interest rate on parental loans, which constitute a separate aid program for students, to 14 percent from the current rate of 9 percent.  Another change included in the House plan, but not in the Senate proposal, would require a minimum annual repayment by student borrowers of $600 a year, instead of the present $360.  Total savings in student loans under the House committee plan are estimated at $504 million in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1. No estimate is available for the Senate plan.  The House committee also shaved about $542 million in spending on Pell Grants, formerly called Basic Educational Opportunity Grants, for needier students by requiring a family to contribute more toward a student's education. The maximum grant would be $1,800, instead of the $1,900 set for the coming school year by legislation enacted last year.  The House committee also proposed eliminating the program under which the Federal Government has provided about $77 million a year to states in matching funds for state grants to students, and cutting about $50 million from college work-study programs. 
