19810623
WASHINGTON, June 22— The Supreme Court ruled today that an employer had no legal obligation to negotiate with employees over a decision to close part of the company's operations.  The 7-to-2 decision was a setback for organized labor and overruled a long-standing policy of the National Labor Relations Board that a partial closure decision was one of the ''terms and conditions of employment'' on which management was required to engage in collective bargaining.  Under the National Labor Relations Act, a union has a protected right to strike if collective bargaining fails to resolve a dispute over the ''terms and conditions of employment.'' The right to strike is not protected if the issue does not come within that definition.  Job Loss for 35 Employees  Today's case, First National Maintenance Corp. v. N.L.R.B., No. 80-544, involved a decision by the New York employer of cleaning and service workers to terminate a contract with a Brooklyn nursing home. The decision meant that 35 employees would lose their jobs.  The company refused the union's request to bargain over the termination. The union filed an unfair labor practice charge with the labor board, which ordered the employer to bargain.  That decision was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which ruled that the National Labor Relations Act created a presumption that such a decision was subject to mandatory bargaining. Congress Expectation Cited  Writing for the majority today, Associate Justice Harry A. Blackmun said that, when Congress approved the labor law, it ''had no expectation that the elected union representative would become an equal partner in the running of the business enterprise in which the union's members are employed.''  While a company's decision to close part of its operations is a ''matter of central and pressing concern to the union,'' Justice Blackmun said, ''management must be free from the constraints of the bargaining process to the extent essential for the running of a profitable business.''  There are times, he continued, when ''management may have great need for speed, flexibility and secrecy in meeting business opportunities and exigencies.''  Mandatory bargaining over a partial closure decision, he said, ''could afford a union a powerful tool for achieving delay, a power that might be used to thwart management's intentions in a manner unrelated to any feasible solution the union might propose.'' Expansive Reading Since 1965  The Supreme Court ruled in 1965 that an employer need not bargain over the decision to terminate its entire operation. Since then, however, the Court has given an expansive reading to the phrase ''terms and conditions of employment,'' including within the area of mandatory bargaining such issues as profit-sharing plans, productivity controls, promotion procedures, senior rights and pension and insurance matters.  Justice Blackmun's opinion today was joined by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Associate Justices Potter Stewart, Byron R. White, Lewis F. Powell, William H. Rehnquist and John Paul Stevens.  Associate Justice William J. Brennan Jr. filed a dissenting opinion that was joined by Associate Justice Thurgood Marshall. They said the majority's reasoning ''takes into account only the interests of management'' and ''fails to consider the legitimate employment interests of the workers and their union.'' A.M.A. Challenge  In another action today, the Court agreed to hear a challenge by the American Medical Association to a ruling by the Federal Trade Commission that the organization's restrictions on advertising by physicians violated the antitrust laws. The F.T.C. was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  The case, A.M.A. v. F.T.C., No. 80-1690, challenges not only the commission's conclusions but also its jurisidiction over nonprofit professional associations such as the A.M.A. 
