19820313
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., March 12— During the winter, when Larry Milbourne visited his hometown of Port Norris, N.J., he and his father would reminisce about last fall's playoffs, in which Milbourne, an unheralded utility infielder, had filled in ably for the injured Bucky Dent.  ''Most everybody at home was amazed at the way I played,'' said Milbourne, who hit .327 in postseason play as the Yankees' starting shortstop. ''My father was the most amazed of all. We'd talk sometimes and tears would come to his eyes, he was so proud of me. He knew I had the ability, but with all the pressure he didn't know if I'd be able to perform.''  Milbourne, who admits that he ''got scared'' last August when Dent was lost for the rest of the season with an injured hand, was so impressive as a full-time shortstop that when he arrived here for spring training he was besieged with questions about whether he expected to start this year.  ''I didn't come down here looking for that,'' Milbourne said. ''You don't take a guy out of the lineup who did what Bucky did over the years. His track record speaks for itself.''  ''I have the same attitude I had last year. I try to take ground balls at different positions and be ready to play when the Yankees need me. They acquired me for a role, and that's to fill a void in the infield and back up Bucky and Willie.'' An Assertive Prankster  Milbourne participates more in clubhouse shenanigans and is much more assertive in conversations than he was last year, when the Yankees acquired him from the Seattle Mariners.  ''That year gave me so much confidence,'' Milbourne said. ''I now consider myself, and a lot of other people consider me, if not the best utility player in baseball at least one of the top two or three. When I go to the plate now I'm thinking about where I'm going to hit the ball. I'm thinking about getting base hits and how many, instead of just thinking about making contact.''  Milbourne said he believed that in the natural evolution of baseball, utility infielders would receive increasingly more recognition.  ''Once it was a putdown to be a relief pitcher,'' he said. ''When they sent a guy to the bullpen, the next step was being out of baseball. That's not true anymore and it's not the only way the game is changing. You have to have different kinds of specialists. What I do is important.'' A Maturation Process  That was not the way he felt earlier in his career, said Milbourne, who is 31 years old and has been a nonstarter for most of his eight years in the big leagues. He empathizes with young players who do not want to be typecast as utility men. ''I always wanted to be a starter and I kept getting disappointed,'' he said. ''I didn't stop fighting the system until I was 28 and Vada Pinson made me realize that this is what I was going to do and that it mattered.''  ''As you get older, your priorities change and you mature. Now the thing I like best is that I'm not out there every day destroying my legs and that will add years to my career.''  Milbourne's one complaint, which he expresses in mild tones, is that his value to the Yankees is not reflected in his paycheck. On a team where the average salary is $400,000, Milbourne will earn $75,000 this season, the last one of a contract he signed with the Seattle Mariners. Last November, the Yankees signed him to a threeyear extension that will pay him $125,000 in 1983 and 1984 and $150,000 in 1985.  ''That's pretty good money and I'm not complaining,'' Milbourne said, ''but the way things turned out, if I hadn't signed the extension this would be my last year and I'd be in an excellent bargaining position. I don't even like thinking about it because you can't look back.'' Hoping for Compensation  Milbourne does not compare his salary to those of his millionaire Yankee teammates, but to other utility infielders, including Luis Gomez of the Atlanta Braves, Greg Pryor of the Chicago White Sox and Fred Stanley of the Oakland A's. Milbourne said that each earns more than $100,000 a year.  Milbourne said he hopes that George Steinbrenner, the Yankee owner, will offer to renegotiate his contract or sweeten it with bonus possibilities. ''My gut feeling is you don't rush George,'' Milbourne said. ''I'll just do my job and in his due time I think he'll do something. If he does, I'll be happy and if he doesn't I'll live with it.''  ''I compensate all my players,'' Steinbrenner said when asked if he planned an adjustment in Milbourne's contract. ''Nobody else compensates like I compensate.''  The best way to make his case, Milbourne knows, is to back up his fine 1981 season with another one. ''What I want to do is hit .300 again in some kind of way,'' Milbourne said. ''That was always my dream - .300 in the big leagues. A lot of people still think it was a fluke but and I'm looking forward to seeing if I can duplicate it or do better.''  Illustrations: Photo of Larry Milbourne 
