19820113
Correction Appended JUDGING from a number of new cookbooks and food books, it is becoming more difficult than ever to define American cuisine. The melting pot runneth over with French, Oriental, Middle Eastern and Italian influences. Add corn kernels to the stir-fry, deglaze a green peppercorn sauce with bourbon or turn pasta into a salad and it qualifies as American.  Anyone curious about the roots of all these recent goings-on can still turn to Evan Jones's authoritative and lively history, ''American Food'' (Random House, $20.50; Vintage, $9.95), now revised and updated with a new chapter on game cookery. Mr. Jones tries but fails to come up with a tidy definition of American food. Instead, he starts with the colonists and Indians and continues for almost 200 pages of interesting, well-documented, often anecdotal lore, all the way to current phenomena such as tofu and Alice Waters, the innovative chef-owner of Chez Panisse, in Berkeley, Calif.  On the way there are glimpses of plantation life and ethnic customsand the story of the avocado and the peanut, to mention just a few. ''American Fo od'' can stand on its own without the recipes that covermore than hal f its pages, but the headnotes to many of them expand the history.  A number of recipes are almost gratuitous, however, having little bearing on anything regional or historical and seeming to be no more than favorites of Mr. Jones and his wife, Judith, a prominent cookbook editor who collaborated on the recipe section.  The chapter on game is appealing, with old and new recipes for venison, quail and wild turkey and even some for squirrel and opossum. It might have been useful to know where the Joneses got the squirrel and opossum.  The very unavailability of squirrel as an ingredient for an authentic Brunswick stew as well as the endangered status of a number of other regional specialities served as the inspiration for ''Fading Feast'' by Raymond Sokolov (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $17.95). The title of the book, which is a compilation of articles from Natural History magazine, is a play on words: It alludes to the vignettes of culinary Americana, such as the Independence, Iowa, county fair, Smithfield ham and authentic Indiana persimmons that are presumably on the verge of disappearing as society becomes increasingly homogenized. The vignettes also emphasize the great diversity of the American table.  The interest of writers such as Mr. Sokolov may serve to maintain customs and foods that seem to be fading. He describes gathering morels in Michigan, for example, yet morels are available in American markets as never before. The recipes that accompany each chapter have been adapted to ingredients that can easily be obtained, so that chicken replaces squirrel in the Brunswick stew. Fine color photographs by Adelaide de Menil make the notion of following Mr. Sokolov's itinerary to offbeat corners of America for a bite most tempting.  A comprehensive, encyclopedic approach has been taken by the editors of Metropolitan Home magazine in the handsome, lavishly illustrated book, ''The New American Cuisine'' (Harmony Books $27.50). In some respects it represents a composite of every element one is likely to find in the latest cookbooks: step-by-step photographs of techniques, pages of color photos of ingredients with definitions, lists of suggested equipment, and recipes that borrow bits and pieces of almost every cuisine, from the products of the wok to old-fashioned mashed potatoes. It is an amb itious book, with considerable worthwhile information, but one that falls short of expectations in terms of being a thorough gui de for today's kitchen.  Many currently popular ideas such as cold noodle salads and warm goat cheese are represented. Others are downright stodgy, among them a ''new'' version of beef Wellington with only the pate but no pastry thickly wrapping the fillet of beef.  There are minor errors, among them the mislabeling of some cheeses and vegetables on the charts, and more serious ones, including the statement that a white line through the center of Brie means the cheese is too old (the reverse is true).  The enthusiasm with which the authors have embraced the latest in food habits has led them to devote a section to sushi and sashimi, Japanese raw fish preparations, but they do not really understand the subject, failing, among other things, to caution their readers never to use fresh-water fish, which can cause serious parasitic illnesses when consumed raw.  When it comes to knowing about fish, A.J. McClane, author of ''McClane's North American Fish Cookery'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, $22.95), is the authority to be reckoned with. His advice on buying and cooking fish is about the most reliable to be found in a book. The contributed recipes are, for the most part, appealing, with only an occasional lapse into the land of such convenience foods as instant minced onions.  Many native American species are represented in recipes - mako shark piccata, stir-fried croaker, New England fish chowder, Muskokee bass stew, cold stuffed mussels and bluefish with mustard butter, to name a few, each illustrated with a glorious color photograph by Arie de Zanger, who colloborated with Mr. McClane on a previous authoritative work, Encyclopedia of Fish Cookery.  More information on varieties that might be substituted for the fish specified in particular recipes would have been helpful, but the 109 recipes in the book offer appealing, often original additions to the fish and seafood repertory. Food Book Sale  At the end of January the Corner Book Shop, a leading dealer in food and wine books for over 40 years, will close and a sale of the shop's enormous collection is in progress. Long a valuable source of out-of-print, second-hand and obscure books on cooking, food and wine, the shop was founded by the late Eleanor Lowenstein. The collect ion, which also includes books on theater and cinema, isbeing offered at increasing rates of discount. Today all books are at50 percent of f prices marked, on Thursday, Friday and Saturday the discount will be 60 percent and on Monday it will be 70 percent. Further cuts will be made until the shop closes. The shop is at 102 Park Avenue S outh, corner 11th Street (254-7714). Hours are 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Mon day through Saturday.  Illustrations: drawing Correction: January 14, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition 
