20061105
 'It Didn't Have to Be That Way'   By Barnes, Fred, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 6, 2006  The consequences have been dire. Republicans have little to boast about in Mr. [George Bush]'s second term except the strong economy -- and it's largely the result of tax cuts enacted three years ago. When Democrats bring up Iraq or corruption, Republicans have no countervailing issues. The president has made a strong case against Democrats on national security and taxes. But voters have been unresponsive and it's easy to understand why. It's Mr. Bush himself who causes them to feel safe from lax security and tax hikes. Whatever happens in tomorrow's election, he'll be in the White House for two more years to protect them from Democratic excesses. But what if Republicans had followed the president's lead last year and tried to overhaul Social Security and enact personal investment accounts? If they'd succeeded, voters would now be perusing the stock tables to decide how to invest their payroll taxes. Had Democrats blocked reform, Republicans would be pointing out the gains voters were missing in the bull market. Either way, Republicans would be ahead. So would the country.  He saw ownership as a boon to personal responsibility, accountability and independence, especially from government. "Government sometimes, because you're dependent on it, undermines the sense of personal responsibility," he said. It was a spur to the poor "not to remain poor and to have that dream of owning something," he told me. And it gave an owner "a vital stake in our country."  Now, an "ownership society" is all but forgotten, Republicans as reformers a thing of the past. The party unity that would have come from settling differences on immigration is absent. As a result, Republicans have bickered throughout the 2006 campaign. If they have an agenda for the next two years, they haven't told voters. Democrats don't have an agenda either, they're the "out" party. They can get away with it. Republicans can't.   
