19820526
1. Seven Styles of Canes Margie Whitmore must use a cane because she has had multiple sclerosis for 10 years. When she shopped for canes she found the dark colors too dreary and the clear plastic ones too clinical. What she wanted was a cheerful, cane with a feminine touch, so she designed her own. Mrs. Whitmore found a manufacturer to make the canes and decided to sell them herself. The Margies come in seven styles: bunches of violets, flowery vines or red and pink roses on a white background, red strawberries or gold butterflies on black and green vines or daisies on a brown background. They're available by mail for $49.95, plus $3 postage, from Raising Cane, 175 Devon Road, Essex Fells, N.J. 07021; 201-226-5058.  2. Lightweight Warmers The leg-warmer fad is still around even though the weather hardly calls for extra wrapping. For those who like the look of them, leg warmers for summer are made of lightweight acrylic in pastel or bright stripes. They have flower-shaped buttons down one side for decoration. The price is $16 at the Holding Company boutiques, which also have novelty socks and stockings galore. The shops are at 243A Columbus Avenue (71st Street) and 2413 Broadway (88th Street). 3. Baskets From Hungary European women use them for marketing. Around the Hamptons or any summer colony the same sort of oblong baskets can be used to tote beach gear or picnics. The baskets are made of hemp in Hungary and are attractively lined with blue and white or red and white checked gingham. The largest (it's 15 inches by 27 inches) is $34; smaller editions to use as handbags are $30 and $26 in street-floor handbags at Lord & Taylor. 4. Espadrilles in Kid Next to sandals, the ideal summer shoe is the espadrille. Most espadrilles are made of canvas, but Maserati of Italy has turned out some pretty versions of the classic made of soft kid with rope trim and rubber soles. In pale blue, pink, lilac, red, bone, white and navy, they're $63 in the Delman shop at Bergdorf Goodman. Glues for All Purposes Things break - cup handles, jewelry, fingernails - and with a variety of glues in convenient form one can mend just about anything. The Devcon Fixit Kit is a clear plastic box containing small tubes of Alpho Super Glue (for cameras, jewelry, toys), household cement (china, glass, pottery), Grip Wood (picture frames, hobby models) and epoxy putty (metal pipes, ceramics). You'll find the kit priced at $3.29 at the Janovic/ @Plaza paint stores. A second mender is for fingernails. Called the Ultra Crazy Nail glue pen, it's a fast way to mend split or broken nails before ragged edges catch on everything. The plastic pen releases a drop of glue to hold the break together until one can get to a manicurist or until the nail grows out. Lamston's at 773 Lexington Avenue (61st Street) and other Lamston stores carry it, priced at $2.49.  Illustrations: photos of new products 
