19820214
It was the role of black folk art to make the unbearable bearable. When all else failed, and society had given the thumbs-down signal once and for all, art was the restorative that made it possible to go on living. That is the message of a monumental exhibition called ''Black Folk Art in America, 1930-1980'' that can be seen through March 28 at the Corcoran Gallery in Washington. Quite apart from its size - there are nearly 400 pieces on view, some of them very large - it is on every count a most remarkable affair. Where most major exhibitions draw upon an already voluminous bibliography, this one had to be put together piece by piece on the rumor, hearsay and the hot tip.  It began as a dream in the minds of Jane Livingston, assistant director of the Corcoran, and her colleague John Beardsley. And then gradually, as a result of the enthusiasm of neighbors, friends, collectors and local historians, one house visit led to another until 20 artists in all had been chosen from a very much larger list of possibilities.  As in every other exhibition of folk art, there are pieces that seduce us by the way they cut the fat off traditional art. Folk art, thus seen, is untaught art, and it is also uncorrupted art. No one ever told these people what to do. Nor has their work been staled by exposure. The sculptor William Edmondson was given a show curated by Dorothy Miller at the Museum of Modern Art way back in 1937, and James Hampton, the environmentalist, has his enormous ''Throne of the Third Heaven'' on permanent view at the National Museum of American Art in Washington, D.C. But these artists are for the most part known only to their neighbors, past or present, and to a tiny minority of specialists. Elijah Pierce (born in 1892) spoke for almost all of them when he said in 1976, ''I didn't even know I was an artist till they told me.''  None of them thought about money. One of them, the sculptor George Williams, was happy to sell his carvings for a dollar apiece. After 10 such sales had been completed, he forthwith left town, convinced that people would get after him for overcharging. What they were after was not money, but deliverance from a world that had rejected them once and for all. It may not be a coincidence that most of the 20 artists in the show were born just before the turn of this century and took to art in their 60's, 70's or 80's as a result of what can loosely be called a revelation.  The oldest among them was a freed slave, William Traylor. Born in Alabama in 1854, he was given the name of his employer. After the emancipation he stayed on as a Traylor employee until 1938. In 1939, when he was spending his nights in the storage room of a funeral parlor and his days in the streets of Montgomery, he began to draw. (''It just come to me,'' he said.) There was no reason why his drawings should be anything special, but in point of fact his mule, his yellow chicken and his highly characterized cat have more presence than much of what we see in the galleries.  It would be unfair to suggest that all the artists in the show were the victims of an unbroken run of bad luck. George White (1903-70) was a Texas adventurer, cast in the classic mold, who had run through a whole gamut of possible employments before settling for art. He had been cowboy, oilfield worker, veterinarian, soldier, barber, deputy sheriff, leather craft teacher and detective in Washington for the F.B.I. From 1945 to 1957 he was the inventor and sole salesman of a cure-all liniment that he brewed in his own bathtub and sold on street corners.  No man of that stamp is going to undervalue his art, and George White never doubted that his carved reliefs and elaborate threedimensional tableaux vivants would find their audience. As he said of himself in 1969, ''This is to certify that G.W. White Jr. has reached his destination in arts. He is a great genius.'' And without necessarily going as far as that, we can agree that his pieces at the Corcoran display a sense of fun, a continuous invention and a delight in both savory and unsavory detail.  More than on e of the artists in the show tu rned to art when they were crippled by what the catalogue calls, in Orwellian terms, ''a work-oriented accident.'' David Butler, a for mer sawmill operator still active with his art in Patterson, Louis iana, at the age of 83, is one of them. He would have every reason to produce depressive or apocalyptic images, but his snipped tin sculp tures radiate, on the contrary, a sense of fantasy and a panoramic affection that embraces even the skunk.  Nor should we grieve for Ulysses Davis, who runs his own barbershop in Savannah, Georgia, while pursuing a parallel and lifelong career as a woodcarver. A consi derable contentment emanates likewise from the sculpture s relating to the Navy, the Army and the Air Force with which Leslie Payne occupied himself for the last 30 and some years ofhis life. (He died last year in Virginia at the age of 75.) These pieces stand out for their mix of vigor and poignancy, technical expertise and a sense of high ambition.  But for this visitor the outstanding element in the show is the bone-white room devoted to the work of Sister Gertrude Morgan (1900-80). Singer, pianist, guitarist and mistress of the tambourine, Sister Morgan was active as preacher, as missionary and as founder of a chapel, an orphanage and a child-care center in her native South. Around 1957 she became convinced that she was to be the bride of Christ. Thereafter she dressed in white, she lived in a totally white environment, and she began to paint in an ever more ecstatic and incantatory style.  In paintings like ''There Is an Eye Watching You,'' she combined written texts with imagery of a simplified but enormously compelling kind. Hers was a genuinely visionary art, with nothing about of it of the winning or the cute. It was intended to teach, to make the invisible visible, and to bring consolation in dark places. How better can we define the ambitions of an ecstatic art? For the run of this show the Gertrude Morgan room at the Corcoran may well be the happiest enclosed space in the country.  Visitors to Washington will find (through March 21) at the National Museum of American Art an exhibition of paintings and sculptures by Alma Thomas. Miss Thomas has a place of honor among this century's women artists, and as she happened to be black it might seem that her show would be a pendant or annex to the Corcoran show.  But in point of fact Miss Thomas was not in any sense a folk artist. She was a college graduate who stood no nonsense from anyone and could play the Southern grande dame when it amused her to do so. For much of her life she taught art to children in Washington schools, and she has many friends among the institutional art establishment in Washington.  Her work was in touch with progressive art from its very beginnings, and in her last years she developed a radiant, clearspoken abstract idiom that gave full expression to an ardent and vivacious nature. Her show can be seen through March 21.  Illustrations: photo of 2 pieces of black folk art 
