20000602
 Actors' Strike Cuts California Production   By By John Lippman, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 2, 2000  Guild members became furious this month when prominent commercial director Marcus Nispel, who frequently worked for producers Ridley and Tony Scott, took out an ad in a trade magazine to solicit strike-related business for a new office he had opened in South Africa, which, along with Vancouver, British Columbia, and Prague, is becoming increasingly popular among commercial producers because of its modern studios and skilled local crews. The ad showed a picture of an elderly bare-breasted black woman, and said: "In South Africa, this is what SAG means." Trade Associations representing advertisers and advertising agencies, as well as the Scott brothers, quickly disavowed the ad, but some guild members are now pressing for a full apology.  BRIEFS: Young & Rubicam is going through some management changes following WPP Group's recent agreement to acquire the New York company for about $4.5 billion. According to an internal memo sent to Y&R employees, Linda Srere, formerly vice chairman and chief client officer at the parent company, has been named president and chief client officer of Y&R Advertising, a newly created position. Ms. Srere joins Ed Vick, who last week returned to Y&R Advertising as chairman and chief executive. Mr. Vick had been chairman and chief creative officer at the corporate level. Peter Stringham continues as chief executive of Y&R North America. . . . True North Communications is combining most of its healthcare business under its FCB HealthCare unit by incorporating the international offices of its Bozell Global Healthcare unit and its Costa Mesa, Calif.-based affiliate Fair Riley Call/Bozell into FCB HealthCare. The company said Bozell Global Healthcare's U.S. office will continue to operate under its own brand. As a result of the consolidation, FCB HealthCare will have revenues of about $53 million based on combined 1999 figures while Bozell Global Healthcare will have about $7 million in revenue. . . . Bcom3's Leo Burnett landed ad duties for Rand McNally, the Chicago mapmaker; spending is an estimated $10million. . . . The Chicago office of FCB landed ad duties for Ampex's iNEXTV, an online video media company; spending is estimated at $8 million to $10 million.   
