19810128
AN ingredient essential to the New York nosh is the New York waiter. So when Lou Singer brought the six women from his Nosher's Tour of New York into Gertel's Kosher Bakery at 53 Hester Street the other day, there was little surprise when the waiter, with blond walrus mustache and several tattoos, asked somewhat brusquely, ''You gonna sit like that all facing each other?''  Mr. Singer smiled and said they were going to sit that way at two tables so they could talk about the rugelach, the hamantashen and the array of baked Danish pastries over their coffees, one Sanka, one tea.  ''O.K.,'' said the waiter, ''What's everybody gonna have?'' ''Roll and butter,'' said Lou Singer. ''I'll have the rugelach,'' said Jean Cristalle. ''How many do I get in an order?'' ''Four. Anybody else?'' ''I'll have one of those lovely cheese Danish,'' said a visitor on the Nosher's Tour. ''Terrific,'' said the waiter, scowling, ''one roll, a rugelach, and a cheese Danish, a lovely cheese Danish. What spenders!'' On his tours, said Mr. Singer, ''You never know what's going to happen.'' For the past eight years, Mr. Singer, a 55-year-old newspaper route driver, has been giving tours of Brooklyn in his spare time, an avocation that ''I stumbled into while delivering newspapers.''  He still delivers papers, but has sold all but two of his routes as his tour business has increased. He is a short, squat and totally enthusiastic man who loves the minutiae of New York and loves even more the opportunity to visit it, sample it, taste it.  Mr. Singer is a one-man-band of a tour guide. He usually confines himself to Brooklyn brownstones and to the gargoyles and cornices of such redeveloping communities as Brooklyn Heights, Carroll Gardens, Park Slope and Cobble Hill, along with a bewildering variety of historical trivia. But occasionally he gives his $12.50-per-personand-buy-your-own-snacks Nosher's Tour of New York. They are specialized tours that he came by naturally.  ''I like to eat,'' he says. A Singer tour is most casual and can be arranged by calling him at 875-9084. ''If I'm not there I'll get there,'' he says. This day he tools his passenger van over the Brooklyn Bridge into Lower Manhattan. ''Got to,'' he says. ''Don't forget, Brooklyn is three times the size of Manhattan and if I want some good deli, then good cheesecake, maybe some Italian or Ukrainian, I'd have to drive back and forth all over Brooklyn. Better I come to Manhattan. Here I have Gertel's and then there's all that other nice stuff around.''  The ''other nice stuff'' was Guss Pickles, just across Hester Street from Gertel's, and a stop at Kodouri, the shop next door to Gertel's that sells exotic dried fruits.  ''Ooh, what are those?'' asked Ida Westley, pointing at a vat of tiny dried rust-and-maroon-colored balls. ''Don't know,'' answered Mr. Singer. ''I'll find out.'' In he went and came out to tell his group that they were dried Chinese apples. ''Apples?'' said Catherine Orlando. ''They look like grapes,'' ''They're apples, dried Chinese apples.'' said Mr. Singer. ''Kodouri knows.'' Next it was around the corner for a stroll up Essex Street, past the chicken market advertising a free container of chicken soup with each chicken bought, past the Pickleman where a helper was stuffing fresh sauerkraut into jars, with his hands (''Tastes better with the hands,'' said Esther Solomon) then back to the van.  Up the street they went, and then, as the group passed the ancient Essex Street Market, Mr. Singer mentioned, ''Too bad it's Tuesday. Ben's Cheese on Houston isn't open. They make a crusty baked Farmer's cheese filled with blueberries that absolutely destroys me.''  When they arrived at Essex and Rivington Streets and the Economy Candy store, the owner, Jerry Cohen, presented ''Jack Cohen and Morris Cohen, they're also bosses,'' to the visitors. Lea Schoenberg examined the halvah and the white chocolate, while others thumbed through packages of Lindt chocolates, Twining teas and beautifully packaged panettoni. Marge Corbett bought a pound of dried currants and a package of coconut and banana chips.  The van stayed parked and Mr. Singer asked a policeman to keep an eye on it while the group walked a half block east along Rivington to Schapiro's Wine Company. Linda Schapiro, wife of the present owner (''We're four generations of Schapiros here, even Reagan visited us'') gave the tourists a walk-through of the basement vats and tasting counter.  It was Schapiro's, she said, that saved the day during Pope John Paul's visit here when ''he ran out of Christian Brothers,'' and Schapiro's that rescued the most recent San Gennaro Festival when its wine supply became ''dangerously low.''  The women tasted the sweet Concord, the thick Malaga and the Burgundy that ''we're trying to copy because people want less sweet wine,'' according to Mrs. Schapiro.  Mr. Singer detoured down Houston Street so he could stop at Henry's Delicatessen to pick up ''a sample of the very best strudel in New York.''  ''They don't put mashed apples in like most people, they fill it with rich candied fruits,'' he said. As he drove onto First Avenue Mr. Singer said, ''If you want the best espresso, you go right here to Veniero's on 11th Street - fantastic pastries, better than in Little Italy.'' He turned west on 11th Street, went to the corner of Second Avenue, turned downtown and parked in front of the Ukrainian National Home, at 140 Second Avenue, between Eighth and Ninth Streets. ''Lunch stop,'' said Mr. Singer.  The group trudged down a corridor into a huge restaurant-catering room and Mr. Singer called for menus. ''I think you should all have the combination platters, but maybe you should split because there's a lot.''  The combination platters, $5.50 each, turned out to contain a huge helping of stuffed cabbage, four boiled pierogi (containing meat, cabbage, cheese and potato), bigos, which is a pungent mixture of sauerkraut and beef topped with slices of kielbasa, and boiled carrots. And it was served with black bread and a salad.  ''Good, huh?'' asked Mr. Singer, who polished off his plate nicely. Sighs and ''uh, huhs,'' floating out over plates still half-filled. ''Everybody ready?'' Groans. ''No food at the next stop. I got a treat. We're going to the Merchant's House. It just recently opened up.'' Sighs of relief. ''Then, then, we'll have dessert. We're going up to Zabar's to look around and we'll have our cake and coffee at Delices la Cote Basque. You all got room left, right?''  More groans. ''It's part of the tour,'' said Lou Singer.  Illustrations: Photo of group stopping to buy pickles 
