19840817
More than 2,500 new bus-stop shelters will be built throughout New York City in the next two and a half years under a contract approved yesterday by the city's Board of Estimate.  The board also voted to allow the City Center of Music and Drama to sell the unused development rights over its landmark theater on West 55th Street, although further approval would be required for the actual transfer of those rights to a private developer.  By its unanimous vote on the bus- stop shelter contract, the board virtually closed what has been almost a decade of contention, investigation, charges of official misconduct, and no construction of any new shelters outside of the nearly 500 in Manhattan.  The contract was awarded to Miller Signs Associates, which maintains the existing steel-and-glass enclosures and pays the city 54 percent of the advertising revenue from the illuminated signboards at the end of each shelter.  882 Shelters in Queens  Within two and a half years of the signing of the contract, Miller is to build 882 shelters in Queens, 766 in Brooklyn, 390 in the Bronx, 329 in Manhattan and 156 on Staten Island. The sites were chosen by the local community boards and the city's Transportation Department.  The city also has the option within five years of requiring Miller to build as many as 166 more shelters on Staten Island, 100 in Manhattan, 80 in Brooklyn and 52 in the Bronx.  Every year, Miller is to pay 22.2 percent of all advertising revenue from the new shelters to the city, with a minimum guaranteed payment of $2 million. The city estimates that each new shelter will cost $5,000 to build.  ''It's a good contract as far as the city is concerned,'' said Morris Tarshis, the city's Director of Franchises.  ''It's a good deal for the citizens who've been waiting so many years,'' said Jeffrey W. Rubin, a lawyer for the Miller concern.  The first and only bus-stop shelters to date in New York City were built in 1975 under a three-year contract with the Bustop Shelters company. In late 1977, City Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin recommended that the shelter franchise be awarded competitively. Questions Raised  The successful bidder was the Convenience and Safety Corporation. Because one of its principals, Saul P. Steinberg, had contributed to Mr. Goldin's political campaign, questions were raised about the Comptroller's involvement in the bidding process.  A 1981 report by the city's Investigation Department concluded that there was ''insufficient evidence to establish that the Comptroller in any way abused the power of his office.'' An investigation by the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan also cleared Mr. Goldin of criminal liability.  But the agreement with Convenience and Safety was canceled during the course of the investigations. In August 1981, the Miller concern began maintaining the existing shelters.  In other actions yesterday, the board authorized the sale to a private developer of the air rights over the City Center Theater at 131 West 55th Street, a city-owned property.  The developer, Ian Bruce Eichner, would transfer these ''unused'' rights - so called because the existing building is not nearly as large as it could be under zoning rules - to an adjacent site and use them to build a much larger building than would otherwise be permitted. Opera to Share in Proceeds  Under an agreement with the center, Mr. Eichner would have to buy at least 316,000 square feet of those unused rights at $32.50 a square foot, or a minimum of $10.3 million. The proceeds are to go to the New York City Opera, the New York City Ballet and the 55th Street Dance Theater Foundation.  Mr. Eichner's proposal, for a 69- story tower combining offices and apartments, needs the approval of several other city agencies and panels and will eventually return to the Board of Estimate for final approval.  The board also authorized Trinity Church to build an elevated pedestrian bridge over Trinity Place, between Rector and Thames Streets, to connect the church with the second floor of the church facility at 74 Trinity Street.  Carol Bellamy, the City Council President, cast the only vote on the board against the proposal and said Martin Gallent, the vice chairman of the City Planning Commission, had made ''several persuasive arguments'' when he voted against the plan.  ''The construction of this bridge would be a difficult precedent,'' Mr. Gallent had said, ''and would make resisting other applicants in a similar situation difficult, if not impossible.'' 
