19810711
BRIDGEPORT, Conn., July 10— Eight policemen were hurt in a rock-and bottle-throwing incident at a housing project here last night and a passer-by was shot in the arm.  The injuries occurred when a crowd of 200 to 300 residents of the project, Father Panik Village, smashed the windows of four police cars and pried open the door of one to free a suspect, the police said.  The officers were treated at Bridgeport Hospital and released, officials said. The passer-by, whom the police refused to identify, will probably be released tomorrow, they added.  According to residents of the project, in East Bridgeport, the disturbance began at about 5:20 P.M. yesterday as an argument over an open fire hydrant. It ended with policemen drawing their guns and firing into the air, residents said. Water Poured Into Cars  According to Emil Mete, a city police inspector, the disturbance started when children and teen-agers at the housing project poured buckets of water from an open fire hydrant into passing cars. When two officers in a patrol car tried to intervene, arrest one of the youths involved and shut off the hydrant, the rock throwing began, Inspector Mete said.  The inspector would not discuss the shooting, except to say that it was not done by a policeman and was under investigation. At the hydrant where a number of young people were cooling off today, Veronica DeSilva, 18 years old, said one of the policemen had got out of his car and had said, ''The next one that throws water, I'll lock 'em up.'' A Crowded Complex  ''Three people threw water on him,'' Miss DeSilva said, and the officer grabbed one, a young girl, and wrestled her into the car. According to Miss DeSilva, a policeman's gun went off in the ensuing struggle.  Father Panik Village, a 40-year-old complex of 44 brick buildings on 39.5 acres, is supposed to house 5,000 people in 1,190 apartments, but housing authorities said the actual population is about 8,000. Some residents, the authorities say, are squatters, some share apartments with friends or relatives, and many are forced there by the lack of available apartments in arson-plagued East Bridgeport.  Vandalism is so severe at the project that housing authorities recently had copper canopies removed and sold them for scrap, before drug addicts did the same, according to David Gonzalez, the city's Housing Director. 
