19820131
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.— In the darkened wings of the Parker Playhouse, James Earl Jones is ''becoming'' Othello for the 150th time in five months. Resplendent in his gold-shot velvet caftan, ''the noble Moor'' is thinking of the battles he has fought, of Aleppo, of Suleiman the Turk who remains to be conquered. At the same time, the actor is aware that with sevenand-a-half weeks left in this nine-city tour before opening night on Broadway, he still feels not so much in command of his role as in search of it. And James Earl Jones wouldn't have it any other way. ''Every performance,'' he has said, ''is one more chance to explore something. That, to me, is what acting is all about.''  This production, which co-stars Christopher Plummer as Iago, began last August at the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn. It opens at the Winter Garden on Wednesday and marks the sixth time that Mr. Jones has played the role. The last time, at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles in 1970, he told a reporter, ''I'll be 40 for this Othello and I still want a crack when I'm 50. You need a great deal of emotional maturity to come to grips with him. You have to start working on the part when you're young so that you can work up to a full comprehension of the man.''  In Fort Lauderdale, Mr. Jones, who is about to turn 51, is finally free to concentrate fully on coming to grips with Othello this time around. He is now unencumbered by the drama that took place offstage throughout most of this tour, which the company manager James A. Gerald has described as ''one long rehearsal.''  From the outset, Mr. Jones was virtually at war with Stratford's artistic director Peter Coe, who also directed the production. The two men's ''artistic differences'' escalated into a bitter personal sparring match and Mr. Jones, deflected from his pursuit of the ideal Othello, sank into a deep depression. It was only after the actress and director Zoe Caldwell joined the tour in Baltimore as ''helper'' that his gloom began to dissipate. (Mr. Coe remains credited as director, although he returned to England when the company was in Washington, D.C.) And, as of Fort Lauderdale, Dianne Wiest joined the cast, the third actress to play Desdemona in this production and the one Mr. Jones wanted in the first place. ''Her arrival,'' he says, ''saved the production.''  The morning after his latest performance, he relaxes on th e palmy terrace of a local restaurant, his powerful frame dwarfing a delicatewrought iron chair. Or he tries to relax.  ''I'm so involved,'' he says, ''in still getting it together.'' It is the ambiguity in the character of Othello that intrigues him: ''He's a mystery man. Shakespeare wrote three Moors - the Prince of Morocco in 'The Merchant of Venice,' a good, right wing Arab shiektype -I've played him - and Aaron the Moor in 'Titus Andronicus,' who was as bad as Iago and much more sassy about it. Those two are minor characters but they're much more clearly conceived than Othello.  ''Nobody knows what 'Othello' is really about. Even Shakespeare didn't know or else he would have written it. Othello's a mystery man and if Shakespeare knew one thing, he knew that. I think, in trying to evoke Othello, Shakespeare was probably in the same kind of process that I'm in now, trying to get in touch with that which you cannot really verbalize.  ''Somebody - maybe it was Peter Coe - told me that Shakespeare wrote the character of Othello to fix Burbage's wagon. (Richard Burbage was a colleague of Shakespeare, and said to have been the first actor to play Othello.) Shakespeare was angry at him for some reason and decided, 'I'll write a character that you can't get a handle on!' - and that's Othello. Anyway, that's the scuttlebutt that's come down through the centuries, old gossip!  ''So all the attempts to define Othello are really ways to dismiss him. To say 'jealous,' 'noble Moor' -the Moorish element is there not to define him but to establish his mystery, to establish that folks were in for a weird ride here.''  He watches the seagulls swooping over the broad canal bordering the restaurant. ''The Jungle Queen,'' a tourist-packed replica of a Mississippi riverboat, drifts by, regal among the puttering, humming motor boats. It is a close-up of the view he sees from his hotel room, where he spends most of the time that he is not in his dressing room or on stage at the Playhouse. ''I did go for a walk on the beach one day,'' he says, ''when it was deserted - just me and the gulls.''  Mr. Jones's affection for his hotel room has less to do with his seeking privacy per se than with his reasons for ''languishing backstage'' after each performance until the stage manager closes the theater. ''It's about not wanting to break the fragile thread of what you've been involved with,'' he says, ''wanting not so much the chance to savor it as to think, 'O.K., we did this tonight and that meant this.' Christopher Plummer is the first actor I've met who also never wants to leave the theater. In fact, he outdoes me.'' 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
