20030411
 AOL's Offering Of Cable Arm May Be Delayed --- While Debating Other Unit Sales, Music Business Seen as Candidate; Media Companies Face Pressure   By By Martin Peers, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 11, 2003  One possibility is for AOL Time Warner to sell Warner/Chappell Music, the music-publishing arm of the Warner Music Group, which could fetch more than $1 billion. While AOL hasn't decided whether to sell the unit, people familiar with the matter say it has received some indications of interest from potential buyers, such as billionaire David Geffen, a veteran of the music business. Mr. Geffen is a partner in Dreamworks SKG but he is acting on a personal basis, not involving Dreamworks, says one person with knowledge of the situation. Other potential buyers include private-equity firms, which have been sniffing around the music business.  At the same time, AOL has a number of other assets it is willing to sell if it has to. Besides Warner/Chappell, there is its 50% stake in the Comedy Central cable network. The company also hasn't ruled out selling Warner Music as a complete business, including the recorded-music business. Earlier this year, AOL had preliminary talks with EMI Music Group about a possible sale. While the prospects for such a deal remain uncertain, AOL executives are skeptical it could get financed, or approved by government regulators.  Which assets get sold largely will be determined by the course of the cable-TV IPO. Conditions in the stock market appear to be improving, with cable-TV valuations rising over the past few months. But the mechanics of getting a registration statement reviewed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in time for the deal to go to the market by late June appear daunting, said a person familiar with the situation. AOL hasn't filed the registration statement and it isn't imminent. A spokesman for AOL notes that Mr. [Richard Parsons] earlier this year said that the IPO would be done by the end of the second quarter or "the late summer," and the timetable hasn't changed.   
