19851117
Although Blue Note Records, one of the earliest and most influential record labels devoted to jazz, is now thought of primarily as a seedbed for such stars of the bop and post-bop periods as Thelonious Monk, Bud Powell, Horace Silver, Sonny Rollins, Jimmy Smith, Clifford Brown, Miles Davis and John Coltrane, the label began its life in 1939 with a series of boogie-woogie records by the pianists Albert Ammons and Pete Johnson. Until the mid-40's, when its emphasis shifted to the jazz musicians and styles that were emerging at the end of World War II, it continued to concentrate on older jazz styles - blues and small-group swing.  Several months after making its initial piano recordings, Blue Note took its first venture with a jazz group, a sextet billed as the Port of Harlem Jazzmen, which returned two months later for a second session as the Port of Harlem Seven. The seventh man at the second session was Sidney Bechet, the clarinetist and soprano saxophonist. At that time, he was unknown to the general public, although he had been a legend to jazz musicians for 20 years, ever since the Swiss conductor Ernst Ansermet heard him in London in 1919 and singled him out in the Southern Syncopated Orchestra as ''an extraordinary clarinet virtuoso'' and an ''artist of genius.''  The group recorded two blues and - trimmed down to a quintet made up of Bechet accompanied by piano, guitar, bass and drums - the first extended development of a popular ballad that Bechet had ever had the opportunity to put on a disk - ''Summertime,'' which became as close to a hit as a record from a small jazz label could be. It was a turning point in Bechet's career and a tremendous boost for the venturesome little record company. He was signed by one of the three major record companies in the United States at that time - RCA-Victor - and became a leading figure among jazz traditionalists in the 1940's.  Bechet's career on Blue Note, which continued sporadically until 1953, is covered in ''The Complete Blue Note Recordings of Sidney Bechet,'' one of the invaluable series of collections, primarily from the Blue Note catalogue, produced by Michael Cuscuna on Mosaic Records (197 Strawberry Hill Avenue, Stamford, Conn. 06902). Along with the six-disk Bechet set, Mosaic has also released another six-disk set, ''The Complete Edmond Hall/James P. Johnson/ Sidney deParis/Vic Dickenson Blue Note Sessions,'' made up of 11 complete recording sessions - six of which have the clarinetist Edmond Hall present as either the leader or a sideman.  The simultaneous release of the two albums is appropriate because Bechet and Hall were the two major musical figures in the early years of Blue Note. Hall never became as well known as Bechet nor did he have the creative range of Bechet. But, like Bechet, he had such a strikingly individualistic way of playing and such a forceful and engaging musical personality that he stood out in any group with which he played although he did not dominate a performance to the extent that Bechet did.  Bechet, an aggressive and volatile man, often poured his music out in such a flood that it swept over everything around it, as other horn men who played with him found to their dismay.  The Bechet set on Mosaic rarely strays far from the blues or Dixieland, despite the fact that Bechet's playing had no relationship to the stereotype of Dixieland (Bechet was idiomatically himself in whatever he played). So, over 12 LP sides, there is a very narrow range in the type of material performed but fortunately, despite the presence of several workaday musicians, there are a number of outstanding ones to give Bechet the surroundings he deserved.  Wild Bill Davison, when his brash and slashing cornet is in full cry, is the only one in the set who challenges Bechet's awesome, enveloping power head on, but there are others who declare themselves brilliantly by sliding along the sides of the Bechet juggernaut. The trumpeter Max Kaminsky steals that clarinet specialty, ''High Society,'' the acoustic guitarist Teddy Bunn has some charming solos and accompaniments in the earliest records, and there are suave trombone passages by Vic Dickenson and Sandy Williams and ruggedly bumptious ones by Jimmy Archey.  Bunk Johnson, recording with Bechet at the time of Johnson's rediscovery in 1945, needs three selections to get warmed up before he arrives at commendable performances on his final two. And on Bechet's last Blue Note session in 1953, the pianist Buddy Weed and the Basie bassist, Walter Page, surround Bechet's strong statements with lightness and grace.  Edmond Hall is heard in somewhat similar situations in the second Mosaic set - blues and Dixieland standards - but there are also three sets that deviate from that pattern. One is a 1941 session by an unusual quartet made up of Hall, the pianist Meade Lux Lewis, who was known at the time primarily for his boogie-woogie performances but playing celeste in this instance, the guitarist Charlie Christian and the bassist Israel Crosby. Hall's characteristic tone - rough-edged but mellow - his popping-upward spurts, his precise patterns that suggest dance steps and his bubbling intensity are all present but, in these performances, are overshadowed by Lewis's ability to raise a stomping, tinkling storm on the celeste and a rare opportunity to hear Christian on acoustic guitar instead of the electric instrument with which he is associated.  Photo of Sidney Bechet 
