19820604
WASHINGTON, June 3— A prosecution neuroradiologist, contradicting expert defense testimony, told the jury today that ''there is no evidence of any significant abnormality whatsoever'' in CAT scans of John W. Hinckley Jr.'s brain.  ''His brain is perfectly normal,'' said Dr. David O. Davis, head of the radiology department at George Washington University Medical Center here, who specializes in X-rays of the brain and spinal cord.  It was also disclosed in testimony today that while President Reagan and Mr. Hinckley's other victims were in hospitals receiving emergency treatment, the defendant was inquiring whether the Academy Awards had been postponed because of the shootings.  Dr. Davis said that the slight brain shrinkage that he and some other radiologists had detected on the sophisticated X-rays was somewhat unusual for an individual of the defendant's age, 27 years, but was no more a sign of mental illness than premature baldness would be.  Mr. Hinckley received Federal District Judge Barrington D. Parker's permission to leave the courtroom in the middle of Dr. Davis's testimony this morning and did not return. No reason was given. Defendant Leave Courtroom  It was the fourth time he had left the courtroom in the middle of testimony since his trial began April 27 on charges that he shot President Reagan and three other men. A videotape camera was set up in the courtroom so that Mr. Hinckley could watch the testimony from his cell.  This afternoon, an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation testified that, a few hours after the shootings on March 30, 1981, Mr. Hinckley inquired, ''Do you think that because of this the Academy Awards are going to be postponed?'' The awards, scheduled for that night, were in fact postponed by one day.  Richard Qulia, the agent, also testified that while in custody that evening the defendant ''spoke about how he was worried that his parents would be affected by this,'' said he was a fan of the Louisiana State University basketball team, spoke logically and clearly, and ''was collected, well-spoken, considerate, well-read, intelligent.''  Prosecutors put Dr. Davis, Mr. Qulia, and Carlton D. Spriggs, a Secret Service agent, on the stand today as part of their rebuttal of Mr. Hinckley's defense of insanity at the time of the shootings.  Dr. Davis contradicted testimony by Dr. Marjorie LeMay, a defense neuroradiologist, who said Tuesday that Mr. Hinckley's brain shrinkage, or atrophy, was ''abnormal'' and suggested he might have ''organic brain disease.''  He also disputed testimony by Dr. Daniel R. Weinberger, a psychiatrist called by the defense, that such brain shrinkage increased somewhat the statistical likelihood that Mr. Hinckley has schizophrenia. 'Atrophy Is Not a Disease'  ''Atrophy is not a disease; it's an event,'' said Dr. Davis, who said he had read more than 15,000 CAT scans and that some brain shrinkage was very common.  He said that while he agreed with Dr. LeMay's view that Mr. Hinckley's brain appeared shrunken to a slightly unusual degree, at least three other respected radiologists had concluded there was no unusual shrinkage. He said that, in any event, ''it doesn't mean anything'' from the standpoint of possible mental illness.  ''There's no possible way that you can predict people's behavior or whether they're schizophrenic or not schizophrenic from a CT scan, period,'' Dr. David added later. The initials in CAT scan, sometimes shortened to CT scan, refer to computer axial tomography.  Dr. Davis said that as many as 50 percent of all adults, although probably less than 5 percent of those in the defendant's age group, had signs of brain shrinkage similar to his.  He dismissed as ''kind of meaningless'' several published scientific studies in recent years that reported a statistical correlation between brain shrinkage like Mr. Hinckley's and schizophrenia.  Such shrinkage appears ''all the time in lots of patients,'' who have no mental illness, and the small numbers of patients tested and other flaws made the studies ''statistically not valid,'' Dr. Davis said.  When asked on cross-examination by Gregory B. Craig, a defense attorney, why the professional journal Neuroradiology, of which he was once an editor, had published one of the studies that he called ''irrelevant,'' Dr. Davis replied, ''I'm sure they were hard up for manuscripts.'' 
