19820126
Everyone knows that the New York Stock Exchange occasionally delists a stock. But apart from mergers, corporations have been delisted mostly because of receiverships or because relatively few shares remained in public hands. The narrow ownership usually occurs after a tender offer.  A tender of delisted stock places the reluctant shareholder in a dilemma. The investor may feel obliged to tender, even if the shares seem undervalued.  He knows that, after all but a handful of shares are retired, his shares will trade in the over-the-counter market, where liquidity and share price can be dramatically reduced.  This is what happened to holdouts at the Hajoca Corporation. Hajoca, (pronounced HA-joke-AH) is an important distributor of plumbing, air-conditioning and industrial supplies. The company operates 37 outlets nationwide and says it has 20,000 customers. There are 800 employees and, until a tender was announced recently, Hajoca had 1,900 shareholders.  In 1975, Hajoca acquired the old Central Foundry business, then a mini-conglomerate. Since that time, Hajoca has restructured into a single-line distributor of building supplies, closing down a prestressed concrete flooring business, among other things. The restructuring has affected the bottom l ine. In 1976, the company reported a loss of $5. 1 million on the 2.2 million shares outstanding. This loss reflect ed the divestitures. Meanwhile, continuing operations earned 53 ce nts a share. In 1977 thecompany had net earnings of 42 cents a share, while income from continuing operations produced a profit of 85 cents a share. In 1978 the comparable figures were 98 cents a share net and $1.13 a share operating. In 1979 the company earned 38 cent s a share net and 98 cents a share on continuing operations and in 1980, 63 cents a share net and 86 cents a share on continuing operat ions.  The Value Line Investment Survey thought the shares had considerable capital gains potential last November but warned of a possible effort to go private. Hajoca had been 60 percent owned by the Richard D. Colburn family, whose main holding, Consolidated Electrical Distributors, offered ''a good fit,'' according to Value Line.  A year ago Panda Star, which is also controlled by the Colburns, offered to buy Hajoca for $7.25 a share. The offer was withdrawn when Hajoca's only outside director said that he was unable to conclude that the proposed price was fair to the public shareholders. Value Line expressed the opinion that the company's book value last June, $9.50 a share, would be a reasonable price.  But Hajoca again offered $7.25 a share, and, in a blow to dissenters, David J. Greene & Company, an investment adviser controlling 202,525 Hajoca shares, agreed to tender those shares under the proposed offer. With David J. Greene bowing out, the remaining minority shareholders had little choice but to accept.  A broker with a sizable position in Hajoca tendered reluctantly, concerned that by doing otherwise, he would face a diminished market for his shares in over-the-counter trading. The broker was attracted to the company originally because he believed the restructuring would lead to increased profitability.  The restructuring had not done much for the shares at the time of the tender. They traded between $5.50 and $7 in 1981. Hajoca is not the only company buying back its shares at a low price in this depressed market. Yesterday Anderson Equity Investments Inc., the new holder of the largest block of GF Business Equipment, a make r of metal office furniture sys tems, announced a tender offer for up to 832,200 of the outstanding s hares at $5 a share.  Earlier in the day, GF Business Equipment had announced that the 18 percent block owned by the Thomas G. Wyman family - 465,450 shares - was sold to Ronald Anderson, president of Universal Inns of America in Girard, Ohio, who also controls Anderson Equity. In all, GF Business Equipment has 2.5 million shares outstanding; thus a successful tender would give control to Mr. Anderson.  The tender offer is upsetting to some shareholders. For one thing, the stock could become a delisting candidate. The market value of shares remaining in public hands may not reach the necessary $2.5 million to $5 million required for a continuing New York Stock Excahnge listing, with the specific amount depending on overall market conditions. A company is also subject to delisting if the number of shares left in public hands falls below 600,000.  But what really disturbed one complaining shareholder was the tender price. As recently as 1980 the book value of the shares was $16.42.  A modest profit in 1981 - estimated at 20 cents a share - would raise that a bit, while the company's depreciation allowances will add about $1.20 a share. That represents a total cash flow of about $1.40 a share. For these reasons, the investor may believe that he is being forced out at an unfair price.  There is also the possiblity that the company will take more shares than it is seeking if more are tendered. Moreover, a future tender offer - possibly at a lower price - could guarantee delisting for the shares.  In appropriate circumstances, delisting can be swift. By coincidence, J.W. Mays, a retailer, filed for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Act yesterday. The Big Board announced that trading in the company's stock would be suspended and that delisting was planned. 
