20070213
 Deleting the Habit: How Email Junkies Do in Withdrawal; When Moby Tried a Fast, Friends Turned on Him; A Honeymoon Hiatus   By Saranow, Jennifer, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 14, 2007  For 2007, the Rev. Mark Batterson of Washington, D.C., resolved not to check work email on his day off, so he could spend more time with his three children. Going offline is particularly tough for ministers, says Mr. Batterson, a 37-year-old pastor with the Assemblies of God. Pastors feel guilty if they aren't accessible all the time to co- workers and congregants, he says. "If God took a day of rest, then I need to, too," says Mr. Batterson, who has stayed email-free six Wednesdays in a row. "It's one thing I'm pretty religious about," he says.  Within a week, he says, his email fast became an "email diet." His management and record companies asked him to go back online because he was releasing a record overseas. Friends, he says, "threatened to divorce me." He's now back to old habits. "Like with all diets, I have been intermittingly successful," he says. He says he's thinking about trying again, perhaps powering down each Sunday. "That may be more practical," he says, "instead of giving it up all cold turkey."  She lasted a couple of days, wondering whether she was getting messages or posts on her blog -- she describes the feeling as a constant "tick" in the back of her mind. But on the third day, when her husband took his laptop to the ship's Internet cafe, she picked up a book and tagged along. "The rationale was, 'I'm here. I'm not doing anything. I might as well check,'" says Ms. [Kristin Rain Pineau Leander], who lost her nerve and checked her email. "I would feel guilty about it," she says, but a "kind of urgent" email she received on the sixth day of the cruise was important enough to justify breaking her fast. "It wasn't meant to be," says Ms. Leander, who still hopes sometime to go a whole week without email. "It will have to be a camping trip somewhere," she says.   
