19810412
WASHINGTON— At 6:45 A.M. on Friday, the low murmur of a digital clock woke Patricia Mathews, resident of an apartment building on upper Connecticut Avenue. Eyes closed, she reached out from the warmth of her down comforter, pressed off the alarm and, after stretching herself fully awake, got out of bed and headed for the kitchen, pausing first to flick on a television news program.  In the kitchen, she measured water and coffee into an electric coffee pot, set it to perking, and turned to the bathroom for a shower and shampoo. By 7:15, she was drying her hair with a blow dryer, unaware that she had already encountered the results of a half dozen Federal safety and health regulations.  Many of these regulations, or the agencies that administer them, are ones President Reagan would like to eliminate or cut back. Administration officials argue that the burden of meeting a raft of Federal rules and standards has reduced business productivity. A number of regulations, they add, are simply ineffective and should be weeded out. That kind of discrete sorting may be easier said than done. For, a day in the life of Miss Mathews, franchising representative of a cable television company, illustrates how widespread Federal regulations are and how most Americans take their protection for granted.  Safety Over and Under the Sink  Miss Mathews's hair dryer, for example, is free of asbestos, a human carcinogen, because the Consumer Product Safety Commission in 1979 alerted manufacturers and the public to the dangers of asbestos fibers emitted by the gadget's wire insulation. Her medicine cabinet contains medicines with covers that are difficult for small children to open, a protection she will take for granted later in the day when her godchild visits. Under her sink are cleansing products, some containing harmful or corrosive chemicals and all labeled as such in compliance with the Federal Hazardous Substances Act.  The mattress Miss Mathews slept on conforms to standards that insure it will not flare up if ignited and her coffee pot meets standards that protect her from electric shock - both the doing of the product safety agency, which President Reagan has targeted for a 30 percent cutback. Agency officials recently testified that such a reduction would severely limit the manpower and resources needed to determine which products can or do endanger consumers.  Each year, there are about 33 million consumer product-related injuries and 25,000 product-related deaths. But by 9 A.M., Miss Mathews had safely escaped any dangers lurking in her apartment. She was in her Mazda, driving to a meeting in nearby Fairfax, Va., surrounded again by the fruits of Government regulations. The air seeping into the car through its vents, for example, met pollution standards set by the Clean Air Act, administered by the Environmental Protection Agency. The 1970 law was designed chiefly to limit certain pollutants to protect infants, the elderly and individuals suffering from respiratory diseases. The standards are expected to be eased, in what Vice President Bush has called an effort to stimulate industrial growth by freeing industry of burdensome regulations.  As Miss Mathews tooled along the highway, she was not aware that the safety features in her car were the result of Federal regulations set by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. In a collision, her foreign-made Mazda must meet the same safety standards imposed on domestic automobiles. Its steering wheel would collapse and not impale her; the windows would shatter but not separate into lethal, free-flying shards; her seat belt would prevent her being thrown through the windshield. Last week, the Reagan Administration proposed to curtail 35 regulations governing the auto industry and ease a number of safety standards. Opponents of such action say this would increase the incidence of car accidents. Transportation Secretary Drew Lewis, however, described the loss of safety benefits as ''negligible'' and said re-evaluating the rules on automatic restraints, such as air bags, might enhance safety in the long run.  With several appointments completed, Miss Mathews telephoned her office headquarters in Denver, then headed for a 12:30 business lunch at a Washington restaurant. Like many Americans, she is dieting, and resisting temptation, had only soup, salad, water to drink, a fruit cup and tea. She also had a healthy serving of Federal regulatory protection. Weighing Food Additives  The foods and food products she ate were free of known cancercausing additives, such as Violet Dye Number 1, because of the Delaney clause, an amendment to the 1938 Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act administered by the Federal Food and Drug Administration. For years, the food industry has complained that the clause's absolute prohibition against any level of a potential carcinogen in food should be modified, in light of scientific advances made since its passage. The benefits of a chemical additive, say industry spokesmen, should be considered before it is automatically and irrevocably dismissed from the food supply. Some of Mr. Reagan's advisers are sympathetic to the industry's arguments.  After lunch, Miss Mathews had a series of business meetings. At 4 P.M., she returned home to read and write proposals for two hours. At 6 P.M., she closed her folders and turned on the television to watch the evening news. A commercial touting an over-the-counter drug for treating colds reminded her that she ought to take something for her own stuffy nose, especially since she would be busy for the next hour preparing a dinner for several friends. She padded off to the bathroom for cold capsules.  Both the commercial and the medicine are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission. Under its truth-in-advertising standards, the commercial could not make unsubstantiated claims. The Administration does not plan to eliminate this function. It does anticipate cutting out the trade commission's 10 regional offices and its public participation program, which helps subsidize travel costs for citizens coming to testify before Congress on matters of agency concern, such as truth in advertising.  By 7:30, her dinner preparations completed, Miss Mathews welcomed her first guests, Colin and Millie Walters, and their toddler son, Ian, whose toys have no sharp edges or points because of a consumer product safety standard. At 11:30, the remnants of the evening meal swept away, Miss Mathews turned out her bedside lamp and fell into an unregulated sleep.  Illustrations: Cartoon 
