19810416
MOSCOW, April 15— The Soviet press reported in worried tones today on the situation in Poland, saying that the country was being subverted by ''creeping counterrevolution'' from within and ''radio aggression'' from the West, while stalwart Communist workers longed for the party to reassert its authority.  Soviet pressure on Poland may have eased with the end of the Warsaw Pact military maneuvers and the restrained speech on April 7 by Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet leader, at the Czechoslovak Communist Party congress. But as Soviet press comment makes clear, Moscow's assessment of the Polish situation remains unchanged.  The Soviet Union is still demanding that the Polish Communist leadership of Stanislaw Kania turn things around in Poland by bold action to seize the initiative from Solidarity, the independent trade union movement headed by Lech Walesa.  Moscow is disturbed by the continuing process of change within the Polish party, with its promise of secret balloting and multiple lists of candidates for party posts, fearing a weakening of party control. Soviet attacks on ''extremists'' within Solidarity amount to thinly disguised exhortation for some arrests to serve as examples. 'Creeping Counterrevolution'  These themes were reflected in a number of Soviet reports today. The weekly Literaturnaya Gazeta came down hard on a Polish dissident group, the Workers' Defense Committee, or KOR. The paper's view of the group's goals was summed up by the headline: ''Evil Force: Creeping Counterrevolution in Poland.''  According to the article, KOR leaders have infiltrated Solidarity and, through that organization, have opened a political struggle for power. The dissident group, the paper said, was subjecting party and Government officials to persecution, issuing instructions on how to seize factories, set up road blocks and destroy road signs, and ''preparing lists of people who are supposed to be isolated on Day X.''  ''The eventual cost of this struggle for power,'' the article said, ''depends largely on how fast sensible-minded Poles succeed in unmasking the true face of the KOR werewolves and of all these disguised counterrevolutionaries.''  One place where common sense and party loyalty prevail, the Soviet press has been saying in recent days, is on the factory floor, among those Communist workers who represent the true voice of the working class. Another report of this nature appeared today in the Soviet party paper Pravda. Russian Reports Other Opinions  A Pravda correspondent said he had interviewed some Communist workers in the industrial city of Katowice and had found them critical of Solidarity's recent tactics and concerned with the need to stabilize the economic situation and defend Communism.  The correspondent said he had asked them what they thought of the present situation and had received these answers: ''We must do everything to have law and order in Poland.'' ''We must take a clear, uncompromising position. When they announced a warning strike, I expressed myself resolutely against it.''  ''People want the party to be strong and militant. Their hopes are tied up with the party.'' Soviet charges that the crisis in Poland is being exploited by certain circles in the West continue undiminished. 
