19860817
IS TAILLEVENT THE FINEST RESTAURANT IN FRANCE? Fashions in restaurants change. There is always a new place that everyone in Paris must see. Some, like Alain Senderens' Lucas-Carton, will become permanent stars in the Parisian firmament; others, like Laperouse and Le Vivarois, fade.  But when the lists are drawn up, Taillevent is always on them and, more often than not, at the top.  Gourmets can, and do, argue over memorable meals, but where wine is concerned, Taillevent really has no peers. For both selection and price, it occupies a remarkable place in the French restaurant world: it is second to none.  Almost 20 years ago, in an early edition of the guide to Paris, the critics Henri Gault and Christian Millau noted with awe that Taillevent's cellar held 512 different wines and a total of 130,000 bottles, including two cases of Chateau Lafite-Rothschild 1806. The number of different wines hasn't changed much, and there are still a few bottles of the 1806 Lafite, but the cellar has expanded to somewhat over 300,000 bottles, surely one of the most extensive restaurant cellars in the world.  The dining-room list offers 300 different wines, from a white Bordeaux for about $12 to a 1937 Lafite for about $830. Anyone incapable of finding something to drink on this list probably should stick to Coca-Cola, but in fact the list is only a sample of the extraordinary wines hidden away in the Taillevent cellars.  This superb collection is the work - I should say passion -of Jean-Claude Vrinat, the owner, director and son of the founder of this elegant restaurant in a town house in the Rue Lamennais, just a block or two from the Arc de Triomphe.  Paris is a Bordeaux city, and Taillevent's sales bear this out. ''Fifty percent of our wine sales are red Bordeaux,'' Mr. Vrinat says. ''White Burgundy accounts for about 20 percent, red Burgundy and Champagne about 10 percent each, wines of the Loire about 2 percent and various regional wines make up the rest.'' In most restaurants in Paris, just as in New York, the wine salesmen come for lunch, spend lavishly, then hang around afterward hoping to make up the price of the meal in sales. Taillevent is on most wine salesmen's routes, but they are usually wasting their time.  Jean-Claude Vrinat is his own wine buyer, and he goes to the source. ''I go to Bordeaux on winter weekends,'' he says. ''It's easy to hop on a plane and be down there in an hour, and I don't mind tasting Bordeaux in the cold months.  ''But my vacations I spend in Burgundy. I taste, taste and taste some more. It's work, but I love the Burgundy countryside.'' Mr. Vrinat estimates that he knows personally between 100 and 120 wine makers. ''Some do send samples to me here,'' he says, ''and I do taste them. But then I visit the place because I want to get to know both the wine and the man.''  Mr. Vrinat's love of Burgundy is evident in his list. Says David Stevens, music critic of the International Herald Tribune and an expert on the wines of Burgundy: ''Taillevent is more than a repository of great wines. It's actually one of the last places where it's still possible to drink great Burgundies at reasonable prices.''  Some of Taillevent's Burgundies include a 1969 Beaune Cent Vignes from the Domaine Duchet for about $115, a 1978 Bonnes Mares from Roumier for about $75, a 1979 Echezeaux from the Domaine Dujac for about $55 and a 1979 Morey-Saint-Denis from the same producer for about $30.  Many younger Burgundies from excellent producers, all personally chosen by Mr. Vrinat, sell for $25 or less. Many of Taillevent's Burgundies are unavailable anywhere else. If they were, they'd sell for much more at retail than they do in this famous restaurant. ''I buy directly from the producers,'' Mr. Vrinat says, ''and I buy en primeur.'' He means that he buys even before the wine is bottled, to get the very best price. This means having considerable skill as a taster. It also means having a considerable investment in wine.  ''Keeping prices reasonable means having an enormous investment in wine,'' Mr. Vrinat says, ''but in recent years it has paid off handsomely. What did the 1982 Chateau Petrus cost when I bought it? $400. Today, it's $4,000. Madness, but that's what one must pay. I pity anyone starting to build a serious restaurant cellar these days.''  Taillevent's wine prices are probably the lowest of any three-star restaurant in Paris, but the owner wishes they were lower. ''Three years ago,'' Mr. Vrinat says, ''I had 50 wines under 100 francs.'' Today there are only a handful, including the white Bordeaux. They also include an Hautes Cotes de Nuits, an attractive small Burgundy, in both red and white for 98 francs (or about $14); a Macon white for the same price, and a 1983 red Bordeaux, Chateau La Tonnelle, from the Premieres Cotes de Blaye for a few francs less.  French restaurants are very proud of their sommeliers. Every month or so, there is another sommelier contest sponsored by a Champagne firm or by the French Government, and restaurants are eager to hire the winners and brag about them in their ads and on their menus. Taillevent has no sommelier. Or rather, it has many. The captains are all knowledgeable about wine. They attend tastings and wine classes and even visit the wine regions at the restaurant's expense. But the principal wine steward is the same man who buys the wines - the owner, Mr. Vrinat. ''It is my way to keep in touch with my clientele,'' he says. ''I get to know them and their tastes. And it gives me a chance to talk about wine, which I love.'' Taillevent's owner admits, a bit ruefully, that he devotes about half of his professional time to wine, ''not counting the weekends in Bordeaux and my vacation time in Burgundy.'' Unlike many American restaurateurs, who set their wine prices at two and three times the retail price, and four or five times their own wholesale price, Mr.Vrinat insists that Taillevent would be profitable if he sold no wine at all.  ''Which is not to say we don't make a profit on wine,'' he says.  ''But it's foolish to think of Taillevent without wine. Fine cuisine does not exist without wine.''  Photo of Jean-Claude Vrinat in wime cellar (Manuel Vremenet/Collectif/JB Pictures) 
