19810925
As a boy growing up in Okmulgee, Okla., in the late 1950's and early '60s, Clarence LeBlanc loved traveling with his father to weekend rodeos. Most of those they attended were organized by allblack roundup clubs - his father was a member of one of them - and the participants were black cowboys.  His father, Roy, a professional welder, was an amateur bronc buster, calf roper and steer wrestler. Young Clarence relished the dazzling rodeo spectacle of flags fluttering around the small wooden bleachers and the chutes with agitated bulls waiting to crash out and the painted clowns and cowboys with high hats and high-heeled boots and the smell of horses and the aroma of fresh alfalfa.  He was also aware of certain incidents when his father entered rodeos that had white competitors. At those rodeos, there were drawings by cowboys for bulls, but his father was often given the toughest bulls. He won a steer-wrestling event in Checotah, Okla., one time, and the prize money was awarded to a white cowboy - LeBlanc was offered his entry fee back, but he refused the token. He'd enter a rodeo by telephone, and then when he arrived and it was seen that he was black, he'd sometimes be told, ''Sorry, we're all filled up.''  This didn't happen all the time, but it occurred enough so that when Clarence, as a young man, informed him he wanted to become a professional rodeo cowboy, his father didn't say no -he respected his son's independent mind - he told him, ''Good luck, but watch out.''  Clarence did. He began to travel with the cowboys, white and black, and lived among them and competed against them in the 80 or 90 rodeos he entered across the country each year. ''But I was in for a big surprise,'' he said recently. ''I can honestly say that there have been no problems to speak of.'' In Town for Garden Rodeo  He had just come in to Madison Square Garden arena - he walks with a slight limp incurred in a car accident last year - and sat down to watch the workers set up the chutes for the Stetson World's Toughest Rodeo, which began yesterday and runs through Sunday. LeBlanc, who is 30 years old, wore a black felt hat, a trim mustache, a Western shirt, jeans and boots. He is a medium-sized man with a quiet, almost diffident manner, which belies the ruggedness and quick reflexes needed to leap off a horse pounding at full speed and onto a fleeing, 500-pound steer and wrestle him to the ground in four seconds, give or take a few tenths of a second.  Clarence LeBlanc turned professional in 1975 and has become one of the best steer wrestlers in the world. In 1977 he was runner-up for the world championship, and in 1978 he won the International Finals Rodeo title, becoming the first black to win a championship. He remains the only black titleholder. ''Any time Clarence gives the nod in the chute,'' said Dan Dailey, the defending all-round rodeo champion, ''he's capable of gettin' anyone's money.''  Of the 3,000 members of the International Rodeo Association, the group sponsoring the Garden rodeo, only six are black. ''But that's only because so few blacks can afford to start at a young age in rodeo - to afford a horse and a saddle and a trailer to cart your horse around,'' LeBlanc said. ''I was lucky. My father had those things because he had worked on ranches, and he staked me to them.''  From the time he was 12, Clarence participated in rodeo events. When he entered Oklahoma State University - he would graduate with a degree in animal science - he continued his weekend rodeoing, and he came to enjoy the challenge of steer wrestling most of all.  After college he went to work as a meat inspector for Kansas Beef in Wichita. ''But I hated it,'' he said. ''I worked in a cooler with no windows and never knew whether the sun was shining. When a friend who was in the rodeo said he was going to St. Louis to compete, he asked if I wanted to go with him. I sa id, 'Yep.' He said, 'How long can you stay? ' I said, 'From now on'.'' Accident Mars Record Year  Last year, LeBlanc was having his best season. He was far in front in points for the top steer wrestler - points are awarded on best finishes around the circuit - and he had already topped his best year in winnings; he had won more than $28,000. Then a bizarre thing happened. In April 1980, while he was driving on a highway near Jackson, Miss., in a pickup truck with four other cowboys, a car in front of them blew a tire. They pulled over to help. Just as LeBlanc was walking between the car and the truck, an other car accidently swerved off the road and rammed the truck, wh ich smashed into the first car, crushing LeBlanc's left leg.  Doctors feared they would have to amputate, but they were able to save his leg. He was told that he would certainly never wrestle a steer again.  His father came to visit and saw Clarence lying in traction. ''How you gonna win the championship layin' up like this?'' his father asked. ''It'll be hard, I guarantee you,'' Clarence replied. Hard, but not impossible. Clarence was out of the hospital in one month. He began riding a bicycle to strenthen the leg. In three months he was cycling up to 50 miles a day. A Warm Welcome  Last January he returned to competition. He entered the International Finals in Tulsa. It is a nine-day event. ''I didn't have my full strength back,'' he said, ''but I was strong enough so that I knew I could fall on a steer.''  The cowboys greeted him warmly. It was good, they told him, to see him back on the road. His father was there, too. When Clarence performs nearby, his father hazes for him - that is, he rides the horse on the other side of the steer to keep the steer in a straight path.  On the first day of the finals, a capacity crowd of 8,500 filled the Civic Center Arena. As Clarence mounted his horse in the chute, the announcer informed the crowd that this was his first ride back. LeBlanc, who has been a favorite around the circuit, received a standing ovation that gave him chills.  Then the gate banged open, and he charged out in pursuit of the steer, leaped from his horse and, with dust flying, quickly wrestled the animal to the ground.  The time was good enough to win the first day's event. His father will never forget it. ''It was a thrill to me to see Clarence come back after the doctors said he'd never ride again,'' Roy LeBlanc said. ''And then for a black man to prove himself a champion. Well, when they announced the winning time, we just grabbed each other and hugged. We didn't say anything. Cowboys don't talk a whole lot.'' 
