19990202
 World Watch   By Compiled by Paul J. Deveney, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 3, 1999  The European Commission is expected to take a tough line with Italy today, sharply criticizing Rome's official forecast for economic growth of 2.5% in 1999 as being too rosy. Indeed, the commissioners think the projection is well above the rate that can be expected following the country's recent economic slowdown and are apparently convinced Italy will only hit its 1999 budget deficit target of 2% of gross domestic product by cutting spending or raising taxes. The commission's determination to take on Italy reflects the desire of the European Union's executive body to be seen as upholding the stability pact, which commits countries that adopted the new common currency on Jan. 1 to balance their budgets down the road.  With their eyes cast toward the east, two of Germany's biggest banks -- Deutsche Bank and Bayerische HypoVereinsbank -- are shedding risks in the asset-backed bond market to free up capital for further acquisitions. HypoVereinsbank was the first to enter the market yesterday, selling 2.13 billion euros ($2.41 billion) of paper backed by corporate loans. In the next few weeks, Deutsche Bank will follow suit with its own deal for two billion euros, also backed by corporate debt. Both financial institutions have been itching to expand, and are focusing their efforts on Eastern Europe. Deutsche Bank is bidding for the big Polish bank Pekao, while it and its rival are targeting Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka, the first of the large Czech banks to be privatized.  Shares of Germany's Preussag took a 7% tumble in Frankfurt as it disappointed traders with lower-than-expected annual earnings on the very same day it unveiled plans for a two billion mark ($1.16 billion) capital increase to bankroll its transformation into a tourism group from a big steel company. The new share offering and the convertible bond issue will generate the money needed to finance Preussag's recent successful bid for a controlling stake in British tour operator Thomas Cook. But the takeover is still subject to approval by European and, now, U.S. regulators, since Thomas Cook just concluded a merger deal with Carlson U.K., a subsidiary of Minneapolis-based Carlson.   
