19810508
International Close U.S.-Japan consultations on matters of vital interest to Tokyo were pledged by President Reagan in a White House talk with Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki, according to a United States official. Japan has objected to a lack of consultations on such issues as Mr. Reagan's decision to lift restrictions on grain shipments to the Soviet Union. (Page A1, Column 1.) Britain's Laborites scored a comeback in elections to local councils in England and Wales in the first major test of party strength in two years. The Labor Party took control from the Conservatives in London, Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham and Leeds and staged surprising upsets in some rural Conservative strongholds. (A1:2.)  The Irish Republican Army staged a funeral procession in Belfast for Robert Sands, who died in prison Tuesday on the 66th day of a hunger strike. Seven commandos of the outlawed I.R.A., wearing masks and battle fatigues, led several thousand mourners in escorting Mr. Sands's body on a three-mile march through Roman Catholic sections of Belfast. (A1:2-4.) Terrorism accelerated in Madrid. A senior military aide to King Juan Carlos was seriously wounded when Basque separatists bombed his car. A colonel and two other soldiers were killed in the incident and 12 passers-by were injured. After the explosion, several hundred rightwing youths surged through the streets, singing a fascist hymn and calling for Spain's army to seize power. (A1:1.) National A key budget victory for the President was recorded in the Democratic-controlled House. A coalition of Republicans and conservative Democrats prevailed in a pivotal 253-176 vote approving an Administration-sponsored budget intended to sharply curtail the growth of Federal spending. The budget calls for $689 billion in spending in the next fiscal year, with a projected deficit of $31 billion. (A1:6.) Retention of a food stamp benefit for families with children who eat free lunches at school was approved by the Senate Agriculture Committee. The panel rejected a proposal by the Reagan Administration to reduce the benefit. The Administration proposal has also been discarded by the House Agriculture Committee. (A17:1.) The science adviser to the President is expected to be Dr. George A. Keyworth, a 41-year-old nuclear physicist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. His name came to the attention of the White House after 15 more nationally prominent scientists and engineers had declined to be considered for the post, which is to be downgraded by the Reagen Administration. (A20:3-4.) A plan to shift Election Day to a Sunday and to conduct voting at the same hours across the nation has been welcomed with reservations by three former Presidents. Letters from Jimmy Carter, Gerald R. Ford and Richard M. Nixon were introduced at a Senate hearing by Representative Mario Biaggi, Democrat of the Bronx, who believes that Sunday voting would increase the turnout. (A17:2-4.) Increased security precautions are being taken by a growing number of officials, celebrities and business executives as a result of the attempted assassination of President Reagan and the murder of John Lennon. Interviews with scores of public figures around the country revealed that many of them now employ bodyguards and wear bulletproof vests. (A21:1-6.) A novel school desegregation plan in the St. Louis area that would provide college tuition for pupils who attend primary and secondary schools outside their districts has faced harsh criticism. Black and white students and parents repeatedly decried the proposal by the Justice Department as a ''bribe'' and ''insult'' that would likely be unworkable. (A16:1-2.) Metropolitan An accord breaking a budget impasse was reported in Albany. Governor Carey and the legislative leaders said they had agreed on virtually the same $16.6 billion budget they had presented as an accord on April 28. But, in a move to appease Warren M. Anderson, the Republican majority leader of the State Senate, the Democrats agreed to increase tax relief to $1.15 billion from $1 billion over five years. (A1:3.) An unexpected teacher shortage has prompted New York City's Board of Education to open a major recruiting drive. The board particularly seeks teachers of mathematics, science and industrial arts as well as specialists to work with the handicapped and those who do not speak English. School enrollments have declined, but so have the number of college graduates prepared for teaching careers. (A1:5.) The New York Times was struck by the Newspaper Guild in a contract dispute, but the walkout ended six and a half hours later when the two sides, with the aid of a Federal mediator, reached a tentative accord. (B3:4-6.) A traffic-control plan was quashed by a State Supreme Court justice. He ruled that New York City had exceeded its authority in seeking to bar cars carrying only the drivers from entering Manhattan over the four toll-free East River bridges during morning rush hours. Regulating roadways, the judge said, is a state function. (B1:6.) A parkland fire on Long Island swept across several thousand acres, destroying trees and underbrush and threatening dozens of homes. Volunteer firefighters from 27 communities battled the blaze, which raced across Connetquot State Park on the island's South Shore. (B2:4-6.)  Business Digest, Page D1 
