19810507
PARIS, April 30— The French military presence in the Indian Ocean and adjacent regions has assumed a new importance as American strategic planning turns increasingly toward Southwest Asia. Alone among America's allies,  France has substantial forces in the area. French global strategic thinking agrees with that in the Pentagon on one important point: A Soviet attack on Western Europe is the most dangerous but at present least likely threat. The danger lies in proxy wars or limited Soviet interventions in the arc of land from Libya to Pakistan and in black Africa.  Since 1973, French forces have intervened twice in Zaire and in Djibouti, Mauritania, Lebanon, Chad and the Central African Republic. The operations were small, but French officers say the troops were deployed rapidly and operated effectively.  French officers and civilian officials consider such missions normal responses to help friendly African nations, to prevent the overthrow of friendly governments and to protect French economic and political interests. Indian Ocean Naval Forces  France has 20 ships in the Indian Ocean area. The guided-missile frigate Duquesne and five dual-purpose frigates are this squadron's major surface ships. Five minesweepers in the squadron are, French sources said, the only Western ships of this type in the Indian Ocean.  The 3,600 French troops in Djibouti are the largest Western land force within striking distance of the Persian Gulf area. The force has four infantry companies, 30 tanks in two squadrons and two batteries of field artillery and one of @antiaircraft artillery. Ten Mirage III-C fighters and 13 helicopters are the air component.  Djibouti is across Bab el Mandeb from Southern Yemen, where there are Soviet and Cuban forces. In a crisis France could try to block the strait and prevent the Soviet naval squadron now using the anchorage in the Dahlak Archipelago in the Red Sea from reaching the Gulf of Aden through the strait.  Smaller French forces of all three services are also on Mayotte in the Comoro Archipelago northwest of Madagascar and on Reunion. 3 Major Units for Intervention  In a crisis, the American Rapid Deployment Force, which has headquarters at MacDill Air Force Base in Florida, would have to call on units scattered across the United States and perhaps on formations in Europe. French intervention forces, however, are already organized in three major units that Westerners say are notable for their flexibility and powerful antitank weaponry.  The largest unit, with a strength of 12,000, is the 11th Parachute Division in Corsica and southwest France. The second largest is the 7,000-member Ninth Division of marine infantry in Brittany. The 31st Brigade of 2,000 has been formed and equipped with tanks and other heavy weapons to support the other units.  France's two aircraft carriers, the Foch and the Clemenceau, with their escorts and supply ships, would provide naval support for a major intervention. Nine transports and landing ships would carry the seaborne forces.  France, like the United States, is short of long-range air transports. The intervention force would have to depend on 50 Transall transports, which are twin-engine planes, and three DC-8's. The Government has ordered 25 second-generation Transalls, and military sources believe that these will double the force's lift capacity. The new planes' performance is said to be similar to that of the American C-130, a tactical transport. Described as Highly Trained  A French military estimate that may be optimistic is that today's landing forces would suffice for an operation by several regiments 3,700 miles from France.  American and other NATO officers who have watched the intervention force on exercises say it is highly trained and motivated. It has more long-service soldiers than the forces stationed in France and West Germany, where conscripts predominate. The weapons and vehicles, while somewhat outmoded, have been chosen with an eye to conditions of war in third-world countries.  The extent of French cooperation with the United States in the event of a crisis in Southwest Asia is difficult to estimate. The consensus among other NATO military and diplomatic sources is that any French involvement in strength would come only if the Government perceived a serious danger to French interests. 
