20070115
 Social Networking by Cellphone; More Companies Roll Out GPS Services That Locate Your Friends -- Or Your Kids   By Vascellaro, Jessica E, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 16, 2007  Indeed, Sprint Nextel has launched "Family Locator," a $9.99-a-month service that lets users track the locations of family members -- or at least their cellphones. (The company is marketing the service as a way to provide "peace of mind" for parents.) And a host of start-up businesses and wireless companies, including Helio, jointly owned by South Korea's SK Telecom Co. and EarthLink Inc., of Atlanta, are turning to the technology to tap the social-networking trend, helping users find their friends on the screen using a combination of GPS technology and cell-tower triangulation.  "Location services do raise some special privacy concerns," says Jeffrey Nelson, a spokesman for Verizon Wireless, which is jointly owned by Verizon Communications Inc. of New York and Vodafone Group PLC of the U.K. In response, Verizon Wireless has implemented a host of privacy measures. For instance, to sign up for a location-based service like "VZ Navigator," an application that uses GPS to tell users where they are, what is around them and give them driving directions, a user must accept the service's terms and conditions, which includes allowing Verizon Wireless to gather information about the location of their device. The company says it doesn't store any GPS information after users close out the session.  There are other players in the field. Rave Wireless Inc., a New York mobile services and applications provider, is using GPS technology to power a new service called "Entourage" that allows users to make their location available to friends in their Rave address book. Kamida Inc.'s Socialight service requires you to tell it where you are by sending it a text-message with your location. Once you "check-in" by doing so, it allows users to leave text-messages for other people who have checked into the vicinity.   
