19820111
HONOLULU, Jan. 10— A monthlong castaway drama that ended here last Tuesday with the arrest of one of those rescued was the latest in a series of off-beat happenings in the unlikely setting of Palmyra atoll, a cluster of coral islands 1,100 miles southwest of here.  The atoll had figured in a murder case involving piracy of a yacht, celestial observations by a group of scientists and long litigation between its owners, the Fullard-Leo family of Hawaii, and the Navy, which used Palmyra as a base in World War II.  The castaways were John W. Harrison, a 39-year-old Canadian industrial designer, and his two daughters, Michellene, 20, and Kristen, 14. On Dec. 10, they beached their crippled 45-foot trimaran on Palmyra when the ves sel lost her mast in a storm. They were flown to Honolulu Tuesday by a Hawaiian charter pil ot, Fred C. Sorenson.  Mr. Harrison was met at the Honolulu airport by the police, who arrested him on a charge of theft brought by the Bank of British Columbia in an effort to recover a $65,000 loan that he was said to have obtained to purchase the trimaran. He was released on probation Friday after pleading no contest to a reduced theft charge. Accused in 1974 Incident  In the murder case involving Palmyra, Stephanie Stearns, 34, of Simi Valley, Calif., and Buck Duane Walker, 44, have been accused in connection with the disappearance in 1974 of Malcolm Graham, 43, and his wife, LaVerne, 40, of San Diego.  Miss Stearns and Mr. Walker were convicted of stealing the Grahams' yacht after the two couples met on Palmyra. The murder charge followed the discovery, by another couple visiting Palmyra, of a metal box containing human bones later identified as the remains of Mrs. Graham. The trial is scheduled to start here on April 18.  Brief fame in the world scientific community came to Palmyra in 1959, when more than 60 scientists from many countries set up instruments on the atoll as part of the International Geophysical Year. Palmyra is considered an ideal site for celestial observations.  In World War II the Navy used Palmyra as a supply base, but its importance declined as the war moved westward, and the base was eventually abandoned. 13-Year Legal Battle With Navy  It took 13 years for the Fullard-Leo family to defeat the Navy in a legal battle that began in 1938 over compensation for use of the property. The case went to five different courts, including the Supreme Court, and then to Congress before the family was awarded $100,000 in payment for damage to the atoll.  Palmyra, a cluster of 39 islets 300 miles north of the Equator, was discovered in 1802 by a Captain Sawle, an American mariner who named the atoll after his ship.  Leslie Fullard-Leo, a onetime Hollywood actor who shares ownership of the atoll with two brothers, Ainsley and Dudley, said in a telephone interview from his home in Kaneohe, on the opposite side of Oahu from Honolulu, that two New Zealanders named Brent and Wilkinson who had married Hawaiian women sailed to Palmyra in 1862 and annexed it for the Kingdom of Hawaii.  King Kamehameha V then gave the two New Zealanders a deed to the atoll, Mr. Fullard-Leo said. A Honolulu judge, Henry Cooper, bought out the heirs of Brent and Wilkinson in 1910, Mr. Fullard-Leo said, adding that his parents, who are now dead, acquired the atoll in 1922 for $70,000. Commercial Ventures Failed  Like most atolls, the Palmyra islets are low and flat, covered with palm trees and ringed with sandy beaches. Visitors have described the atoll as beautiful. But a money-maker it is not, Mr. Fullard-Leo said.  Repeated ventures into coconut cultivation and commercial fishing were unsuccessful, he said, and the Navy took over the atoll with a lease in 1938.  The Navy built a 6,000-foot airstrip and other installations on the atoll, Mr. Fullard-Leo said, but jungle growth later engulfed part of the airstrip, leaving only about half the runway still usable. Pu tting the p lace in shape for development ''would cost millions,'' he said.  After the Supreme Court ruled in 1950 that the Fullard-Leo family had a valid title to Palmyra, he said, ''the Navy just pulled out and never paid us any money.'' Hollywood Career Recalled  Mr. Fullard-Leo said he then quit his Hollywood career to press the family's case in Congress. ''I was in the middle of a good career as an actor,'' Mr. Fullard-Leo said, adding that he had performed under the name of Leslie Vincent with such stars as Constance Bennett and Gracie Fields in a movie called ''Paris Underground,'' and with Marlene Dietrich and John Wayne in ''Seven Sinners.''  Palmyra was separated from Hawaiian jurisdiction in 1959, when Hawaii became the 50th state, and is now the responsibility of the Interior Department.  But Palmyra's legal troubles seem far from over. Mr. Fullard-Leo said his family was now involved in litigation over a venture into tourism and fishing started by a mainland group about three years ago. The failure of that enterprise brought on a suit by his family, he said, and a countersuit by the entrepreneurs.  The latest failure in the development of Palmyra has left the atoll with a permanent population of one, a 5 4-year-old fisherman andyachtsman named Ray Landrum, who was associat ed with the former developers. Mr. Landrum assisted the castaway Harrisons with canned goods in their 26-day stay on the island.  Illustrations: Map of South Pacific 
