20020820
 First Guilty Plea In Enron Case Expected Today --- Michael Kopper, Top Aide To CFO Andrew Fastow, Will Admit to Two Felonies   By By Jonathan Weil and Kathryn Kranhold, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 21, 2002  The upshot of this was that Enron backed the loan and Little River and Big River never had enough of their own money at risk in Chewco to satisfy the 3% requirement. Yet for the next four years, Enron treated Chewco as if it did meet the 3% standard, allowing the company to tamp down its debt and bolster its earnings. Last year, when Enron decided to buy out Chewco, Mr. [Michael J. Kopper] and his domestic partner, William Dodson, received $12.6 million from the company, a huge gain on the $125,000 they had originally provided to fund Little River and Big River. That amount is slightly more than Mr. Kopper has now agreed to disgorge. Mr. Dodson couldn't be reached for comment.  Among other partnerships Mr. Kopper helped structure was one called Southampton, named for the affluent Houston neighborhood where Messrs. Kopper and Fastow each owned homes. The partnership was part of LJM Cayman. In 2000, Mr. Kopper and a few select Enron employees were allowed to invest in Southampton. Within a few months, the partnership was dissolved after the partners were paid millions by Enron to unwind a previous agreement. According to an internal investigation by Enron's former board, Southampton investors "walked away with tens of millions of dollars that, in an arm's length context, Enron would have never given away."  Mr. Kopper and Mr. Fastow's relationship went beyond the office. Most recently, when Mr. Fastow's parents moved from New Jersey to Houston, Messrs. Dodson and Kopper sold their home to Carl and Joan Fastow for $10 and got a mortgage of $850,000, which Mr. Fastow is listed as the guarantor of. The deal was done in January of this year, according to Harris County records. Messrs. Kopper and Dodson built a new home in the more-exclusive River Oaks neighborhood, not far from the newly built mansions owned by Messrs. Fastow and [Jeffrey Skilling].   
