19811118
WASHINGTON, Nov. 17— The House Interior Committee, under the initiative of its ranking Republican member, moved today to consider a proposal to bar oil and gas leasing and mining for minerals in Federal wilderness areas.  Representative Manuel Lujan Jr., Republican of New Mexico, introduced a resolution that would require the withdrawal of wilderness areas from all mining and drilling operations.  Mr. Lujan's district includes the Capitan Wilderness, a 40,000-acre preserve in southwestern New Mexico. Earlier this fall the Interior Department's Bureau of Land Management issued three leases allowing energy companies to explore for oil on 700 acres in the Capitan Wilderness and about 9,000 acres outside and adjacent to the wilderness area.  It marked the first time the Interior Department had issued a lease for an energy company to explore for oil on Federal land formally designated as a wilderness preserve.  An aide to Mr. Lujan said that the Congressman was not consulted before the action was taken. Meeting Scheduled Friday  The chairman of the committee, Representative Morris K. Udall, Democrat of Arizona, has scheduled a committee meeting Friday to take up Mr. Lujan's resolution. Under the Federal Lands Management Act, the House Interior Committee or the Senate Energy Committee can unilaterally withdraw a wilderness area from development on the ground that it would jeopardize the area's environment.  The Interior Committee earlier withdrew the Bob Marshall Wilderness in Montana from projected development. Interior Secretary James G. Watt acquiesced in the committee's action, but the Mountain States Legal Foundation, which Mr. Watt headed before his appointment as Secretary, and the Pacific States Legal Foundation sued to have the action declared unconstitutional.  The leases issued for the Capitan Wilderness were the first of many that are expected to be granted by the Interior Department. Last Friday, the United States Forest Service proposed that oil and gas leasing be permitted in more than 89,000 acres of the Washakie Wilderness, a 687,000-acre preserve in northwestern Wyoming.  The Washakie area lies in the district of another Republican member of the Interior Committee, Representative Richard B. Cheney. Mr. Cheney said in a telephone interview that he had not decided how he would vote on Mr. Lujan's motion. But he added: ''I am opposed to oil and gas leasing in wilderness areas. I am prepared to correct the problem through legislation.'' 
