19820709
IN ''A Time to Die,'' a ''CBS Reports'' documentary at 10 tomorrow night, CBS News looks at how some terminally ill people face death. It's not a new subject for television. Public television has dealt with it in a number of remarkable cinema-verite programs. But it is no less gripping this time.  With Marlene Sanders as correspondent, ''A Time to Die'' is really about a group called Omega, based in Cambridge, Mass., and headed by a Roman Catholic priest named Tom Welch. Omega was founded specifically to deal with all aspects of death and dying. Father Welch is seen conducting round-table discussions with people who have been told that they probably do not have much longer to live. ''I set goals,'' one explains. ''I have little goals. I used to have big goals.'' Another talks about trying to have ''quality time'' together with his family.  Much of the hour is devoted to 38-year-old Jack Trahant, a cancer patient with only a short time to live. He was getting support from Focus, a self-help group that is part of Omega. Soft-spoken and remarkably composed, he is seen chatting candidly about his fate, declaring, ''I have always been accepting of what has happened to me.'' He worries only about his wife and their 3-year-old son. Is his illness unfair? ''Life is unfair,'' he says. It is unfair to be born with Down's syndrome, and it is unfair to be born in the slums of Calcutta. As for himself, he has even written his own funeral and memorial service, part of which is subsequently recorded for the documentary.  Also the subject of a profile is Jane Pike, a cancer victim who helped start the Omega program. Her surviving husband outlines her message: ''To get people to realize that cancer was something that could be talked about, that one didn't have to back away from it. You could share the feelings whether they were happy or sad.'' The final point is that dealing with death is more out in the open than it used to be. This moving documentary was produced by Kent Garrett. The writers were Miss Sanders and Mr. Garrett.  At 9:15 P.M. tomorrow, ''Evening at Pops'' on Channel 13 will have Itz@hak Perlman, the violinist, visiting the Boston Pops Orchestra. With John Williams conducting, Mr. Perlman will offer a program ranging from Bruch's Concerto No. 1 in G minor to Gershwin's ''Summertime.'' The Pops will do its usual turns on such chestnuts as the ''Entrance of the Guests'' from Wagner's ''Tannhauser.'' Once upon a time, there used to be band concerts in parks. Now, it's ''Evening at the Pops'' at home.  Locally, WCBS-TV is taking a flyer with ''The Rock and Roll Show,'' clearly a pilot for a possible weekly show. Denny Somach and Dave Nelson are the executive producers. Zoli Vajda is the producerdirector. And Mark Goodman, sporting a huge mass of dark curly hair, is the host. The half-hour is being broadcast twice this weekend - at 7:30 tonight and at midnight tomorrow.  Giving the presentation a dollop of added interest is the presence of Mick Jagger, the Rolling Stones superstar, who is developing an uncanny resemblance to Lotte Lenya. Mr. Jagger was persuaded to participate, evidently, in exchange for an enthusiastic puff piece about his group's tour of Europe. He even opens the show with a cheery greeting: ''Hi, I'm Mick Jagger and I'll be the special guest on 'The Rock and Roll Show.' '' Unfortunately, scenes of the Rolling Stones performing in Munich reveal a surprising number of empty seats in the stands.  Like most previous television attempts to cover the pop-music scene, this one very nearly drowns in its own superficiality. Top groups such as Asia or REO Speedwagon are used for clips of a performance and completely banal interviews. The hype is nonstop. ''We could be witnessing the birth of one of the supergroups of the 1980's,'' Mr. Goodman assures us with the special fervor of those who are still trying to recreate the excitement that the Beatles and the Stones brought to the 1960's. A ''Rock Report'' is crammed with dated trivia (''Springsteen fans - Bruce made a surprise appearance at the giant disarmament rally in Central Park''). And the entertainment segments have been cribbed from videotapes produced primarily for publicity purposes.  Sunday night at 11, WNET, Channel 13, is offering ''Deafman Glance,'' a work of video art by Robert Wilson, the playwright whose provocative and acclaimed stage productions include ''Einstein on the Beach.'' Mr. Wilson has long been producing works for European television, but apparently he is still considered a touch too avantgarde for the American market. A spokesman for Mr. Wilson said there was considerable resistance in the corridors of public television to including ''Deafman Glance'' in the ''Matters of Life and Death'' series, which has offered traditional documentaries.  The piece is short, barely a half-hour, and mesmerizingly intense. There is no dialogue; there are snatches of music. The picture compositions are hauntingly spare. Sounds, slightly exaggerated, are crucial. A woman is seen in a bright kitchen. Birds are chirping outside. She fills a glass with milk. The sound of the liquid gurgling is almost obscene. She carrys the glass upstairs to a young black boy who slurps down the milk. She returns to the kitchen.  Once again, the rituals of the kitchen become ominous. Dishes are washed and dried with deliberate care. Suddenly, a large chef's knife appears in the pitcher. This is the object the woman carries on her next trip upstairs. The knife is seen penetrating the boy's T-shirt. There is no blood. The ritual remains pristine. The woman returns to the kitchen. The routine of milk and knife is repeated with another boy upstairs. When she is finally through with her dark deeds, the kitchen is bathed in a blue light, and the sound of crickets can be heard outside. The film ends with the woman walking to a light bulb. Mr. Wilson has managed to be, as is his habit, highly unusual and unforgettable. 
