20060813
 Calling All Road Warriors; Knowing Where Your Employees Are Is Key to Keeping Them Safe; 'We Have to Get on With It'   By Carey, Susan, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 14, 2006  Centrally managed-travel programs -- in which employers require their travelers to book air, hotels and cars through a chosen agency -- used to be a means for companies to get the best discounts by putting a lot of volume to certain travel vendors, and a way of tracking expenses. But in recent years, companies have been linking their travel policies to their corporate-security and risk-management functions, emphasizing travel intelligence and training, says Philip Huntley, who works in the crisis-management consulting practice for insurer Aon Corp. Aon's two-hour "secure travel seminars" cover everything from arrival and departure procedures to preserving anonymity -- meant to keep Americans and "rich" Westerners from displaying logos or jewelry and setting themselves up as targets -- to coping with captivity, says Mr. Huntley.  "If we don't know where they are, we can't help them," says Tom McCabe, director of global travel services for PerkinElmer Inc. "Without data, you're dead." His Wellesley, Mass., company, a maker of biomedical-imaging and chemical-analysis tools, uses American Express Co. as its travel arranger. Mr. McCabe says he receives daily global reports from American Express on his company's travelers, where they are going in the next 48 hours and their flight numbers. In the case of a natural disaster or other problem, he says AmEx will try to contact the employees directly. The company says about 3,000 of its workers travel in a given year.  Drew Watson, senior vice president of Kroll Security Group, says the spike in concern probably will lead to more demand for the company's personal-security seminars for executives and travel-safety seminars for corporate globe-trotters. "Terrorism is tough," he says. "Americans have certain expectation about the government looking out for their interests and safety. Now there's a realization the government can't do everything. Companies are struggling with that."   
