20060905
 The Informed Patient: Hospitals Step Up Disaster-Preparedness   By Landro, Laura, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 6, 2006  Around the country, hospitals are preparing for disaster, redesigning emergency facilities to handle any sudden surge in patients, and adding features like decontamination showers and "negative pressure" rooms to isolate infectious patients. They are improving coordination efforts with local emergency and health-care organizations, and sharing lessons learned from catastrophic events like Sept. 11 and last year's Hurricane Katrina at meetings around the country. A symposium on response to large-scale emergencies will be led by Downtown Hospital on Sept. 18 in New York.  While funding remains an issue for many hospitals, New York Downtown Hospital was able to raise most of the $25 million it needed for its new ER from Wall Street firms including Goldman Sachs Group and Lehman Brothers Holdings. New York Downtown's chief executive, Bruce Logan, says hospital officials visited Shaare Zedek hospital in Jerusalem, where they came away with the idea for a new decontamination facility with 16 high-powered showers for chemical exposure. David Raveh, an infectious-disease specialist at Shaare Zedek, who will discuss his hospitals' flu pandemic strategies at the Sept. 18 meeting, notes that the danger of such an outbreak in Israel is slim. But with the ever- present threat of attack in his country, "we use it as an excuse to prepare again and again for bioterrorism," says Dr. Raveh.  Some experts warn, though, that regions in the U.S. should prioritize based on the type of events they might likely face. Many communities use "all hazards" training programs that prepare for any catastrophe, be it a terrorist attack, a hurricane or a disease outbreak. But "the reality is that we are much more likely in certain areas to sustain natural disasters than terrorist attacks, and we need to regroup to spend more time on and energy on preparing for them," says John Wales, medical director of the emergency department at East Jefferson General Hospital in New Orleans, which stayed open in the aftermath of Katrina.   
