19820723
WASHINGTON, July 22— The Reagan Administration's decision to open one billion offshore acres to oil and gas leasing provoked an uproar today, with California preparing a court challenge and Interior Secretary James G. Watt accusing critics of ''political posturing.''  California officials have arranged to file suit in Federal District Court in Washington, seeking to challenge Mr. Watts's decision, announced Wednesday, to open vast areas of the outer continental shelf to leasing over the next five years.  ''Mr. Watt is at it again,'' said Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California. ''He's trying to auction off the patrimony of America precipitously without protecting the public interest.''  Secretary Watt, who said the program was ''environmentally sound and secure and we're going to create a lot of jobs,'' belittled Governor Brown's protests. 'Political Posturing' Charged  ''We're always sued by the state of California,'' Mr. Watt said in an appearance on ''CBS Morning News'' today. ''That's for political posturing. We understand that. They understand it. It's political gamesmanship they're playing.''  On Capitol Hill, three Massachusetts Democrats, Senator Edward M. Kennedy and Representatives Edward J. Markey and Gerry E. Studds, introduced a resolution disapproving of the leasing plan.  ''Secretary Watt has decided to play Russian roulette with a priceless and irreplacable heritage - our coastlines and our vast marine environment,'' said Senator Kennedy.  ''Offshore energy development is an important objective, and one I fully support,'' Mr. Kennedy added. ''But we need not proceed so recklessly and at such great risk to the environment.'' Decision 'a Disgraceful Act'  Speaker of the House Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. said Mr. Watt had ''overstepped his bounds - it's just a disgraceful act.'' The Interior Secretary said the plan had been developed after consultation with the states, the Congress and ''all the interest groups.'' He said the environmental record of offshore drilling ''is beautiful,'' with the exception of a 1969 spill off the California coast at Santa Barbara that, he said, had ''no negative impacts on the flora, the fauna, the shellfish, the finfish, the esthetics of Santa Barbara.''  Mr. Watt said Wednesday that the decision would ''reduce the vulnerability of America to blackmail, embargoes or other national security threats.''  In North Carolina, which went to court several years ago to prevent drilling within 12 miles of its coast, Gov. James B. Hunt Jr. said that while North Carolina had no objection to distant offshore drilling, the state would resume its objection if any of the tracts are near the coast because ''our tourism and fishing industries are crucial.''  An Interior Department spokesman said that a three-mile buffer zone is usually maintained between the coast and any tracts offered for lease. 
