19820519
YOU wouldn't really call them a motorcycle gang. Oh sure, they wear black leather and thrill to the sound of a well-tuned engine revving at 5,500 r.p.m.'s. And they do speak somewhat rhapsodically about the pull of the open road, about what it's like to lean far into a turn and watch the macadam whiz by. And they tend to travel in a pack that might appear menacing at first glance. But still, you wouldn't really call them a motorcycle gang.  ''I'd say we're more of a motorcycle group,'' suggested one. ''No, no,'' replied another irritably. ''Look, there are consciousnessraising groups and there are motorcycle gangs. But there's no such thing as a consciousness-raising gang or a motorcycle group.''  Perhaps what makes this assemblage so hard to classify is that most of the time they all lead such decidedly staid and middle-class lives. For example, Thomas Skwarek, 31 years old, is a vice president of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company on Wall Street. Nancy Gold, 27, is an Assistant District Attorney for Manhattan. Greg Edwards, 35, is a corporate and industrial photographer. And Marvin Safir, 55, is the owner of Tovarisch, an elegant Russian restaurant near Lincoln Center.  No statistics have been compiled on how many of the nation's 5.2 million registered motorcylists are middle class or whether their number is growing. ''But there's no doubt that there are a lot of white-collar bikers out there,'' said Gary Winn, legislative analyst for the American Motorcycle Association in Westerville, Ohio.  ''I'm sure if anyone really studied it, they'd find a surprising number of closet motorcyclists, people who ride on weekends, but prefer not to talk about it at the office on Monday morning.''  In support of that argument, Mr. Winn said that of the association's 135,000 members, 44.9 percent have a family income of $25,000 or above and 30 percent have college educations.  ''Whatever the statistics are or aren't,'' said Mr. Edwards, ''I'm afraid the public perception of a biker comes mainly from films like 'The Wild Ones,' with Marlon Brando, and from horror stories about the Hell's Angels.'' The freelance writer and rider David Abrahamson, 35, disagrees. ''I don't think that's so true anymore,'' he said. ''The image has changed. You remember that advertising campaign, 'You Meet the Nicest People on a Honda'? I think that sort of thing worked. People no longer think of bikers as thugs. Sensationalists, thrill-seekers, nuts - maybe. But not thugs.''  Certainly, there was nothing disreputable about the bikers who met on the Upper West Side on a recent Saturday morning. Three of them did wear black leather jackets, and Miss Gold wore a pair of matching black leather pants, but the reason, she explained, had nothing to do with projecting an underworld image: ''It really is the safest thing you can wear. It gives you the most protection if you should take a spill.''  After exchanging warm greetings all around, the riders headed out to the West Side Highway, crossed the George Washington Bridge and formed into a staggered configuration on the Palisades Interstate Parkway. With Miss Gold leading, the caravan cruised up Route 9W, a serpentine road that appears too rural to be so close to the city. Many other motorcyclists were out riding - as they are on any pleasant weekend day in spring, summer or fall - and most, as they passed, waved, gave a clenched-fist salute or a thumb's up sign.  Within an hour, the neat formation of riders crossed the Bear Mountain Bridge, and headed north on 9D to Cold Spring, N.Y., where they stopped at a small restaurant for lunch. With little urging, the conversation turned to motorcycling.  ''I use the bike all the time,'' said Mr. Edwards. ''During the week, I use it for transportation in the city. It's fast, it's cheap and there's always a place to park. But the most important reason I have a bike is for my sanity. I need to see trees and sky now and then. And I don't want to do that sitting inside a little metal box, staring through a dirty window.''  ''People think it's odd to see a woman on a bike and certainly you don't see too many of them,'' Miss Gold commented. ''But I even ride to work dressed in my leathers. I just change clothes at the office.''  ''It's also a great way to get to meet people,'' Mr. Skwarek added. ''It's hard to just start talking to someone in this city. But show up in a pin-stripe suit and carrying a helmet and you've got a conversation. I went to the ballet on the bike not long ago -wearing a tux and carrying my helmet - and a guy came up to me and said, 'I hope you didn't leave that thing in the lobby.' The guy happened to be Paul Newman.''  Mr. Safir noted that he, too, relied on his motorcycle for transportation in the city. ''I ride everywhere,'' he said. ''It's part of me. Though one time I went to the opera in white tie and tails and almost did myself in. The tails got tangled in my rear wheel. I mean, I almost did an Isadora Duncan.''  The danger of motorcycling - even when one is not wearing tails - is something that is never far from a biker's mind, though it's seldom dwelled upon. ''It's a calculated risk,'' said Mr. Skwarek, who has ridden for six years. ''Maybe that's part of the attraction. We all have fairly conservative jobs, jobs that don't entail a lot of risk, and I think some people need to take risks in life.''  Statistically, there is no question that a motorcyle rider is in greater danger than the driver of a car. The fatality rate for motorcyclists is nearly five times that of automobilists. ''But statistics can be deceptive,'' notes the motorcycle association's Mr. Winn. ''If you weed out the guy who's inexperienced on a bike and the very young bikers, those in the 16-24 age group, the figures look better. The probability of an accident for a motorcyclist over 30 with more than four years' riding experience is roughly the same as for an auto driver.''  Mr. Safir, who has been riding for 36 years, mentioned that ''in all that time I've had only two accidents - both when I was parked. ''One time I dropped my helmet on my foot and broke a toe,'' he said. ''The other time the bike had fallen over and I was trying to pick it up. I slipped and it hit me in the nose.''  Everyone at the table agreed that owning a motorcycle is a boon to a New Yorker's social life. ''A motorcycle makes this a small town again,'' said Mr. Edwards. ''It certainly gives you a lot more social mobility,'' agreed Mr. Skwarek. ''I live on the West Side but with the bike I can also date preppy women on the East Side, artsy-craftsy women in the Village or even very artsy-craftsy women down in SoHo.'' Another biker added: ''And you know how hard it is to hold hands with a girl on the first date? Well, put her behind you on a bike and you've got that problem solved.''  ''It's an advantage for a woman too,'' said Miss Gold. ''A woman on a motorcycle attracts a lot of attention. The other day some guy pulled me over and handed me a piece of paper that said on it: 'Hi, I'm Bobby. Call me.' Then it had his phone number.''  Before moving out again to complete the day's ride, which would cover more than 200 miles in three states, the motorcyclists discussed, as they had many times before, what name they should give their gang, or group. Favored suggestions included, ''The Mild Ones,'' ''Middle-Class Madness'' and ''The Heck's Angels.'' In the end, nothing was decided. ''I don't think we really need a name,'' said Mr. Edwards finally. ''We're all too independent to settle on one name. I mean, if we weren't, would we be doing this in the first place?''  Illustrations: photo of Thomas Skwarek and Nancy Gold 
