19810807
WASHINGTON, Aug. 6— Only two weeks ago today, President Reagan's historic tax-cutting legislation was still being shaped at a White House negotiating session with key allies in Congress. As various options came up for discussion, Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan, who was presiding, yielded on some items and rejected others.  At one point, the President dropped in to urge everybody on. ''Would you like to join us?'' Secretary Regan asked with a smile. ''Heck no,'' the President replied, ''I'm going to leave this to you experts. I'm not going to get involved in details.'' 'Big Picture' Approach  As recounted later by Secretary Regan, this exchange illustrated a key aspect of the extraordinary negotiating style of a President who has achieved what critics acknowledge is one of the most sweeping set of policy victories in modern history.  In interviews, White House officials agreed that Mr. Reagan had surprised skeptics, not by communicating his policies so well, but by developing instincts for concentrating his energy on ''the big picture,'' as one aide put it, while letting subordinates do most of the necessary legislative horse-trading.  Thus Mr. Reagan chose to capitalize on his popularity and speechmaking ability by addressing the nation on budget reductions and tax relief, but backed away from a speech on the troublesome and complex issue of Social Security. On both the budget and tax issues the President became personally involved in the lobbying, but only at the final crucial stages of the debate.  Moreover, Presidential aides said, Mr. Reagan has consciously brought this style to other matters, particularly in foreign policy. In all the recent turbulence in the Middle East, for example, the President has confined his public comments to broad appeals for peace even as his aides criticized Israel and discussed the intricacies of the mission of the special Middle East envoy, Philip C. Habib. A Month in California  Mr. Reagan's visible role this week in personally threatening dismissal of striking air traffic controllers is seen at the White House as a departure from the normal practice of letting his deputies and Cabinet Secretaries announce potentially controversial decisions. Senior officials explained that the circumstances were unusual in that Mr. Reagan felt strongly about the issue and that it was important to establish a pattern of forceful action in what is viewed as his first real crisis.  After six and a half months on the job, Mr. Reagan departed today for a month's vacation in California, and left behind a onceskeptical political community dazzled by his legislative record. At the same time, at this important turning point in Mr. Reagan's Presidency, it remains a mystery to outsiders - deliberately so, his advisers say - just what decision-making role is played by the President himself and what is played by his Cabinet and a team of White House advisers that is regarded as one of his strongest assets. Long Hours of Lobbying  With his moves choreographed by security-conscious and mediaconscious advisers, the Ronald Reagan seen by the public conveys a politically potent mixture of easygoing humor and deep determination about general principles - but very little display of pulling the day-to-day levers of government.  White House officials said that Mr. Reagan had dispelled any notion that he was a lazy President with his long hours of lobbying for his economic program, in which he generally does not discuss legislative details but rather relies on his popularity and efforts to reach some political accommodation.  But advisers are still so concerned that he be kept from discussing controversial issues in impromptu public comments that, only yesterday, a notice went up demanding that White House reporters refrain from asking Mr. Reagan questions when he poses for photographs with foreign leaders.  Even in private meetings, visitors often say they are impressed more with Mr. Reagan's sense of conviction and relaxed manner than with his grasp of the complexities of the issues at hand.  ''He likes to tell stories, make bon mots and keep it fairly anecdotal,'' said Representative Barber B. Conable Jr., the ranking member of the House Ways and Means Committee, who has met with Mr. Reagan often. ''He shows he has knowledge by asking intelligent questions and listening intently.'' View of Italian Leader  Perhaps the most unusual description of Mr. Reagan came recently from Prime Minister Giovanni Spadolini of Italy, who met the President last month at the economic summit conference in Ottawa. Mr. Spadolini said Mr. Reagan reminded him of Nikita S. Khrushchev, the late Soviet leader, because of the richness of his stories and anecdotes and what he called the President's ''peasant wisdom.''  As for Mr. Reagan's role in decision-making, Mr. Conable, a key Republican strategist in the recently passed tax cut, said the President was involved in the tax negotiations ''but not directly.''  ''The President is a very bright man who understands things quickly,'' added Mr. Conable, who is from upstate New York. ''But we did our negotiating with subordinates, and by the time we met with the President, we were meeting on what had become almost a fait accompli. The President becomes highly engaged in the final step of the process, but up to that point his role is not apparent.'' 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
