20060704
 Quarterly Mutual Funds Review; One Wild Quarter: Good-Bye To Triple-Digit Gains In Latin America; Mr. Pangaro's Rough Ride Avoids Worst of the Shoals; Brazilian CDs and the Gym   By Shefali Anand in New York and Alistair MacDonald in London, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 5, 2006  While the Latin American countries still face political risks, one of the biggest threats comes from the U.S. Efforts by the Federal Reserve to control inflation, by raising rates to cool the U.S. economy, can hurt Latin American stock markets in several ways. Investors are drawn back to the U.S., where they can buy relatively safe bonds paying higher yields. If "interest rates go much higher than expected, liquidity would dry up for emerging markets," Mr. [Gonzalo Pangaro] said. Higher rates also could slow down economies world-wide. Still, he thinks Latin America "is in a much better position now than it was in previous tightening cycles."  Morningstar's Mr. [Arijit Dutta] praises Mr. Pangaro for favoring stocks of companies that benefit from rising incomes in Latin America, rather than going for cyclical commodity shares. Mr. Pangaro also has favored bigger stocks, which usually are easier to sell in bad times. Having witnessed market crises, "it's something we think of actively," Mr. Pangaro said. So far, he has fared better than many peers; his portfolio ended the quarter almost exactly where it started, while others shed 3% to 4%.  The selloff has been tough. "I am anxious. I am competitive. I want to do well," Mr. Pangaro said. He goes to the gym to work off stress, and was headed late last week to Argentina's World Cup match against Germany. But some relief comes from trusting his stock selection. "The psychology of asset management is very important. I've made that mistake in the past. When things are not going well, you tend to spend 16 hours in the office reading everything you can, and, in general, you tend to end up more confused than when you started. So getting the balance right is very important."   
