19810725
''This could be bad,'' said the coupon scalper named Billy earlier this week, as he waited at La Guardia's Eastern Airlines terminal with a few hundred $1 bills and a fat wad of Eastern coupons. ''You feel like buying a thousand?''  Billy, who uses only his first name because he pays no income tax on the money he makes scalping tickets, was one of a half-dozen coupon traders at the Eastern shuttle exit at New York's La Guardia Airport early in the week. With the nephew of a Manhattan travel agent, two college students from Long Island and assorted entrepreneurs, he was offering cash to passengers getting off the shuttle in return for the latest of the nine discount coupon offers made by American carriers.  But a glut of tickets depressed business at the shuttle gate. After offering up to $12.50 a coupon at the beginning of Eastern's offer, Billy's prices had dropped to $10, then to $4 and finally to two for $5. The scalpers said the brokers were getting edgy about buying. Passengers, especially at the two-for-$5 price, were not exactly jumping to sell. Billy, stuck in the middle, was pretty sure he would survive. But some of his fellow scalpers, he said, ''were getting stomped.''  Some manias are more profitable than others. Since the spring of 1979, when United Airlines first issued half-fare vouchers for use on any full-fare flight in an effort to speed its recovery from a sixweek strike, coupon-scalping has become a business of its own. At airports, people like Billy buy the coupons and then resell them to professional brokers or travel agents. Agents and brokers, in turn, sell the coupons back to travelers, or to travel departments at an increasing number of sizable corporations. The remaining coupons are resold through advertisements, or notes tacked on bulletin boards.  To scalpers, many of the nine airline coupon offers made in the two years since United's offer have attained somewhat legendary status. A Los Angeles-based commodities firm traded United Airlines coupons as a commodity for a brief period in the summer of 1979. And Eastern Airlines' first coupon offer last January - when the company issued vouchers entitling anyone who took the shuttle connecting New York, Washington and Boston to half off on a full-fare flight anywhere in the country - inspired three separate counterfeit attempts and at least one mugging in the parking lot of La Guardia's shuttle terminal.  But to many scalpers, and some brokers, Eastern's latest offer has not exactly been a marketing success -''a bomb'' is how Billy described it.  The problem is that since July 8, Eastern has been giving all New York-to-Washington and New York-to-Boston shuttle passengers a coupon worth up to $50 in discounts on regular one-way fares between New York and Los Angeles and San Francisco. But $50 is considerably less than the potential savings on Eastern's previous ticket offer, and demand for the coupons has not come close to what the scalpers at La Guardia are used to. As a result, after a few days of heated trading early this week, many of the scalpers at La Guardia found themselves faced with a classic business predicament -they bought high, before the market broke, and then found buying and selling low a problem. 25% Change Hands at Airport  According to David C. Kenney, a professional broker who flew to La Guardia from Denver because of Eastern's offer, one in four ''highquality'' airline coupons - the United offer, for example - changes hands before it leaves an airline terminal. Many of the others get lost in dresser drawers, buried in baggage or otherwise ''totally wasted,'' he said. Of the coupons that are sold to scalpers, up to 25 percent eventually show up in the travel departments of corporations such as Xerox, A.T.&T. and I.B.M., he added.  Purchasing techniques varied at La Guardia this week, where the scalpers generally did their business over a set of railings set up near the Eastern shuttle exit.  At the beginning of the week - when Mr. Kenney, for one, said he counted at least 42 scalpers - most sales were made by those leaning as far as possible over the railing and waving money in the faces of passengers. According to scalpers in the terminal this week, sellers favor people such as Billy, who is 6 feet 5 inches tall, with a long reach.  Later, as the number of traders diminished with the value of coupons, other methods took hold. One bearded trader from Brooklyn concentrated on what he called ''nailing'' foreign tourists. ''They don't know any better,'' he said. ''You tell them $3 and no matter how many they give you, you pay them $3.'' An older man, also from Brooklyn, made a point of standing several feet behind everyone else, where he spoke politely and tried to pick up the ''backwash.''  Some coupon scalpers tried to sell out, even if at a loss. There were, for example, the student named Tim, from Washington, and a phone company employee from Arlington, Va., who said he was related to the deposed royal family of Afghanistan. Tim reported disposing of 1,000 coupons for which he had paid ''between $5 and $6'' at a loss of several hundred dollars. After a bus ride back to Manhattan with a reporter who paid his fare, the phone company employee was last seen walking along 42d Street in search of a travel agency.  Illustrations: photo of coupon traders 
