19820514
For its employees, its passengers and the airports that its gaily colored planes stopped at, it all began to sink in yesterday. Braniff was not going to fly anymore.  All but some 225 of Braniff's 9,500 employees abruptly found themselves jobless, faced with the bleak reality that their chosen field is a sick industry that holds out little hope of new work. ''I'm now like the other 9.6 percent of Americans beating the pavements for a job,'' one Braniff worker said.  Scores of passengers found themselves marooned hundreds of miles from their destinations. At the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport on Wednesday night, where the fleet of Braniff planes descended like survivors of a lost air battle, motels were jammed. Many passengers simply put their heads down and slept in the terminal.  Alfred Tumey, who arrived with his wife on Braniff's last flight, which got into Dallas from Hawaii at 6 A.M. yesterday, remarked, ''We heard it over in Hawaii that the airline was folding and we didn't know if we would make it back or not.'' A platoon of Braniff managers drove up in a yellow Cadillac to haul the baggage. Impact on Dallas Airport  The Braniff shutdown represented a sharp jolt to the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport itself. The carrier pays it some $1.5 million to $2 million a month in landing and rental fees. Braniff chips in about 28 percent of the airport's landing fees, second only to the 42 percent paid by American Airlines.  A spokesman for the airport said that landing fees would be raised to cover the vanished Braniff revenue. The airport also said it was prepared to rent any of the deserted Braniff space, including its world headquarters, to new tenants.  ''Braniff said that they're going to come back,'' an airport spokesman said. ''What we have to see is how soon they're going to come back. We don't have time as an airport to wait. We have to get on with things. In this business, if you hiccup you lose your place in line.''  Competing carriers scurried to put wings under people. American reported that, as of midafternoon yesterday, it had carried 3,500 Braniff ticket holders, whom it was accommodating on a standby basis.  The Dallas Chamber of Commerce reckoned that, besides the estimated 6,000 Braniff workers in the area, the shutdown would strip at least another 6,000 workers in related industries of their jobs. It said that the lost salaries would total $450 million.  After word came at 5 P.M. Wednesday that Braniff was being grounded, some employees angrily stormed off. Others finished their assigned tasks and glumly shuffled away. Some fought back tears. Quite a number lugged cardboard boxes with belongings cleaned out of their desks.  Bill Schoen, who will be 39 in a week, has been a Braniff pilot for 16 years. On Wednesday, he was at work in a Braniff volunteer office, trying to find a speaker for a Kiwanis affair.  After lunch, rumors started to swirl when it was learned that a flight to London was canceled and a flight to Honolulu was ordered back. At about 5 P.M., word came that people were being told to take their belongings home with them. 'Shipping Out Resumes'  ''We had been living with an understanding that this could happen for about a month,'' Mr. Schoen said. Yesterday, he ''began to put some concepts and ideas together and thought about shipping out some resumes.'' He chatted with a few of his neighbors, also Braniff workers. One wondered whether he should sell his home. Another quipped that he might start a used-car lot.  ''You realize from something like this that security doesn't always come from a paycheck,'' Mr. Schoen said. ''You rely on inner strength and family and hope.''  Joe Gant was the pilot of a 2:30 P.M. flight from Fort Worth to Chicago on Wednesday. After he landed at O'Hare International, he was standing in the lounge for the baggage people while the plane was made ready to go on to Kansas City, Mo. No one else was in the room. The 5:30 P.M. news came on the television and there was the Braniff story.  ''Surprisingly enough, I had very little reaction,'' Mr. Gant said. ''I was amazed at my own calm. I happen to be a Christian and I don't believe anything happens by accident. God gave me a good peace during that moment.'' 'We Will Be Back'  The plane was ordered back to Fort Worth. Mr. Gant traveled as a passenger. After the seat-belt warning was flicked off, the co-pilot made a passionate speech over the public-address system, quoting the late Gen. Douglas MacArthur that ''We will be back.'' The passengers broke into applause.  ''Most people were discouraged,'' said Tom McAferty, a 43-year-old Braniff pilot. ''We have families. We have braces on our children. How are you going to tell them that your job of 18 years is done. How do you tell that that what you're trained to do best, fly a jet aircraft, is out the window.''  Yet he said his hopes were considerably lifted by the Braniff declaration yesterday that its planes might fly again. He feels uncommon loyalty to Braniff. ''After the last light switch is turned off, the last floor scrubbed and the last door locked, I'll be the last one out,'' he said.  Already, people began to appear who knew that it did not have to happen like this. John Clements, besides being chairman of Political Research Inc. in Dallas, has been eager to rescue Braniff. He travels a lot. If Braniff does not fly again, he figures fares are going to increase. Consequently, he ran some ads in the Dallas papers in March urging everyone to send Braniff $100. True to his mission, he sent $100 along.  His reaction yesterday was that ''Braniff could have been saved.'' How does he know? ''I could have saved them if I was given 15 minutes,'' he said. In recent weeks, Mr. Clements said that he tried to meet with Braniff officials to pass on his wisdom, but that they never got around to squeezing him in.  What was he going to tell them? He will not say. It seems he is polishing up a book on Braniff, and the solution is in there. ''You'll have to read the book,'' he said.  Illustrations: photo of Howard Putnam 
