20021003
 Review / Film: Hannibal Lecter's Return Fails to Make a Tasty Dish Of Lackluster `Red Dragon' --- Hypnotic `Heaven' Looks as Good As Its Name; `Alias Betty' Tells Several Stories, All Terrifically   By By Joe Morgenstern, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 4, 2002  At least Mr. [Anthony Hopkins] gets to play -- and parody -- someone we love to loathe. It's hard to find strong feelings, apart from disgust, for the mad serial killer played by Ralph Fiennes. The Tooth Fairy, as he is called, does have his quirks -- he digests a William Blake drawing all too literally, and he looks, from the naked back, like Rod Steiger in "The Illustrated Man" -- but his madness seems to have been inherited from countless movie crazies of the past. Edward Norton plays Will Graham, the FBI agent brought out of retirement to help solve the Tooth Fairy case. (One sequence shows, in clumsily unconvincing detail, how Will captured Lecter in the first place.) Mr. Norton, as everyone knows, is a fine actor, but Ted Tally's adaptation gives him so much pap to play in between a few scary scenes that there's no way he can prevail. Ditto for Emily Watson as Reba McClane, a blind woman with sometimes piercing intuitions.  "Heaven" was co-written by Krzysztof Piesiewicz and the late Krzysztof Kieslowski, the celebrated Polish filmmaker who directed the trilogy "Blue," "White" and "Red," and whose masterpiece, "The Decalogue," was a miniseries inspired by the Ten Commandments. When Kieslowski died in 1996, he left this screenplay, the first part of a planned trilogy called "Heaven," "Hell" and "Purgatory." Thanks to the producers, and with some support from two other prominent filmmakers, Anthony Minghella and Sydney Pollack, the man chosen to direct the script was Tom Tykwer, who did the startlingly innovative "Run Lola Run." The match is an intricate one -- Polish writers, German director and cinematographer ("Lola's" shooter, Frank Griebe), and Australian and American stars -- but heaven is indeed where it was made.  The starting point of the film, which was adapted from a novel by Ruth Rendell, is a tragedy that befalls Betty (Sandrine Kiberlain), a successful novelist, and single mother, whose own mother, Margot (Nicole Garcia), makes narcissism a credo to live by. When Betty's young son dies in an accident, Margot promptly kidnaps another little boy, Jose, and brings him home as an emergency replacement. It's a nutty thing to do, and Margot recognizes the nuttiness, albeit vaguely. "Why would I kidnap him?" she says to herself. "I don't like kids." But the kidnapping is only the first of many bizarre developments perpetrated by, or on, other characters connected to Betty only by random chance. They include the kidnap victim's barmaid mother Carole (Mathilde Seigner), her haplessly good-hearted lover Francois (Luck Mervil), and a petty crook and hitherto failed forger, Alex (Edouard Baer), who may be Jose's father.   
