19810802
PHILADELPHIA It was primarily as a draftsman that Picasso first presented himself in a one-man exhibition. (It was in Barcelona, and he was 18 at the time.) It was as a draftsman that he mooted many of his memorable ideas over the next 70 and some years. And it was primarily as a draftsman that he brought his long career to a close. In the etchings of his 80's, and in drawings made in his early 90's, he reinvented himself in ways that were no longer possible for him in painting.  That Picasso ''could draw like Ingres'' is ritually conceded even by those who detest his work in its every other aspect. And Picasso was, indeed, all his life a master of the unaided line. But it is fundamental to his achievement that he gave us a completely new idea of the company in which drawing could usefully find itself. The gamut of his work on paper runs all the way, for instance, from straightforward drawings done with graphite, charcoal or pen and ink on paper to mixed-media works in which drawing keeps company with wallpaper, brown wrapping paper, colored papers, newspaper and chromolithographs. The freshness, the breadth of reference and the unforced monumentality of these papiers colles put them among the works of art that we could least bear to be without.  Picasso's activity as a draftsman has a further attraction for us in that we know it much less well than we know his paintings and his sculptures. The great paintings have been travestied in reproductions a thousand times over. The more-or-less Complete Sculptures are available to us in book form. But with his drawings Picasso has still many a surprise to spring - not least among the 33 sketchbooks and the 1,500 drawings that will form part of the upcoming Picasso Museum in Paris.  For each and all of these reasons ''Master Drawings by Picasso'' has to be one of the most important exhibitions of 1981. Organized by Gary Tinterow, a graduate student at the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Mass., it was first seen at the Fogg, and after that at the Art Institute of Chicago. As of now and through Aug. 23, it can be seen at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, which is its last scheduled stop.  Its exact size and composition have varied somewhat from place to place in ways dictated by local strengths, on the one hand, and the fragility of many individual drawings, on the other. But in every case it has consisted of rather more than 100 drawings lent from all over. Most of these are carefully annotated by Mr. Tinterow in the catalogue, which costs $26.95, and they include a particularly strong group from the Picasso Museum.  In a remarkably large number of instances the drawings on show are what might be called clinchers. If we want to see Picasso in the context of Ingres, for instance, the show includes what may well be the most Ingrist of all his drawings - the portrait of Madame Georges Wildenstein, done in 1918. If the elaborate symbolic plan of ''La Vie''(1903) has bothered us for years, there are two drawings that throw light upon it. If we are interested in the evolution of the ''Demoiselles d'Avignon,'' we shall find a group of related drawings that have much to tell us.  If we want to know more about the sculptural abstraction that Picasso imposed upon the human body in 1928, there is a particularly weighty example from the Picasso Museum. If we can never see enough of the symphonic papiers colles, the Philadelphia showing offers two of the richest of all of them - the ''Still Life With Violin and Fruit'' (1912-13) and the ''Pipe and Sheet Music'' (1914). If we are interested to plumb the depths to which Picasso was driven from time to time by his primarily testicular attitude to relations with the other sex, there is a drawing dated 1933 - here called ''Figures Making Love'' - in which that attitude is made clear once and for all.  Both show and catalogue are rich in the kind of offhand insight that often gets overlooked in exhibitions of a less confidential kind. Picasso had, for instance, a way of knowing things that he couldn't possibly have been expected to know. He had lived with roosters all his life, both in Spain and in Southern France, and in 1938 he made five incisive drawings of them, one of which is in the show. But who would have expected him to say, as he once said to his fellow-painter Xavier Gonzales, that some of the best roosters were the ones on American weathervanes?  In relation to the work of Picasso's last years, Mr. Tinterow shows himself as loyal, but wary. Picasso in old age produced drawings at a prodigious rate, and a great many of them - 366, for instance, dated between December 1969 and August 1972 - went on exhibition in his lifetime. What we see in Philadelphia is a choice of just five sheets from the 1970's. Among this is a memorably adventurous recasting of the female nude. But the image that will stay with most visitors to the show is the self-portrait as death's head, dated July 1972.  In his late 80's and very early 90's Picasso enjoyed giving a fantasticated account of his own appearance. Time, place and costume - all were twisted at will. But in the self-portrait as death's head, he took a hard, steady look at the worst and ended up with an image of himself that we can read as a sightless ruin, a rock bitten into by time, or a misshapen boulder poised unsteadily on schematic shoulders. It would be hard to imagine a more arresting adieu.  It should be a grief to us all that this most remarkable exhibition will not be seen in New York. The matter of Picasso's drawings is, after all, one in which New York got away to an exemplary start. In 1911, when he was not yet 30, Picasso had an exhibition of 85 ''recent drawings and watercolors'' at Alfred Stieglitz's 29l Gallery. Not until 1919 in Paris and 1927 in Berlin was anything comparable seen again, and no New York museum has thought it worth while to show Picasso's achievement on paper by itself.  Doubtless it may be argued that the last thing that New York needs at this moment is another Picasso exhibition. But it was the paradox of last year's mammoth survey at the Museum of Modern Art that it was really far too small. Subject after subject seemed in retrospect to have been touched on too briefly. Question after question had been raised - so it afterward seemed - but not answered. This impression was, of course, a tribute both to the unrelenting energies of Picasso himself and to the seriousness with which the exhibition had been conceived. No mere miscellany, no matter how vast, would have had that particular impact.  The role of drawing in that great exhibition was considerable. In all, around 300 drawings were included. At certain points they were brought up in strength (in relation to ''Guernica,'' for instance) but it was the paintings and the sculptures that imposed themselves - by size, by weight of numbers, and by the overall power and brilliance of their impact - as the main subject of the exhibition. To that extent, ''Master Drawings by Picasso'' may be said to offer a new kind of experience. Intending visitors to Philadelphia should be warned, by the way, that the Museum is closed on both Mondays and Tuesdays.  On Sunday, July 5, I mentioned Matisse's ''Dance'' as having been acquired by the Museum of Modern Art through the Pierre Matisse Gallery. In point of fact that great painting came to the museum - along with so much else - by way of the Sidney Janis Gallery. I am very sorry to have confused the two.  Illustrations: photo of Picasso's "Portrait of Alfons Maseres" (1900) photo of Picasso's "Self-Portrait" (1972) 
