20030711
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Tastings: A Bouquet of Roses; A Shelf Full of Blush Wine Belies Its Sweet Image; What Is Xinomavro?   By Dorothy J. Gaiter and John Brecher, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 11, 2003  Rose wines are made by leaving the grapes' clear juice in contact with the dark skins for a short time, and winemakers use all sorts of different grapes. What follows is a look at our own bouquet of a dozen roses. Our point isn't for you to rush out to look for any of these -- as we've said, we'd never seen most of these ourselves, and we don't expect we'll see them again anytime soon. Rather, we simply want to give you some idea of the remarkable variety of roses on shelves and try to persuade you to try an unfamiliar one. Have you ever heard of the Lagrein grape? Have you ever had a rose from Italy? These are the kinds of unusual wine experiences that you should actively seek, not avoid. Wonderful, surprising things might happen. We didn't taste these blind. They are listed in the order we happened to open them. The prices listed are the prices we paid.  CHATEAU PENIN 2002. (Bordeaux, France. 60% Merlot, 40% Cabernet Sauvignon. $8.09.) In a tasting of roses from around the world in 2001, this was among our favorites, and the red was among our favorites in a tasting of inexpensive Bordeaux in 2002, so this is no surprise: We loved this. It's a lovely bubble-gum color, marvelously dry, with honest fruit and a nice austerity that makes it a great food wine. It's more often around $11.99, but, even at that, it's a gorgeous wine for the price. Dottie's favorite.  MURI GRIES 'LAGREIN ROSATO' 2002. (Alto Adige, Italy. Lagrein. $13.49.) John's favorite. When we think of Alto Adige, we think of whites, and we certainly don't quaff a lot of wine from the Lagrein grape. But this was outstanding: more red than pink, with a hint of tannins like a red wine, yet with an austere, mineral taste like a white wine from the Loire Valley of France and an almost dusty, dry finish. What a new experience!   
