19820427
IN a return to the Hippocratic practice of bloodletting, once believed to purge the body of bad humors and to restore the vigor of life, doctors in many countries now are bleeding patients to treat a myriad of disorders. The widely varying results have led to many medical controversies about the practice, which is costly and timeconsuming, yet has saved lives. Some estimates foresee hundreds of thousands of these procedures being done annually by mid-decade at a cost of billions of dollars.  In the ancient practice of bloodletting, all purged blood was discarded. In the modern versions, the technique is named according to the portions that are selectively removed. For example, in therapeutic plasm@ap@heresis (also called plasma exchange or apheresis) the fluid plasma portion of the blood is discarded. Dramatic improvement has been reported among patients affected by the 50 or so disorders in which it has been tried over recent years, disorders as disparate as rheumatoid arthritis and mushroom poisoning.  In the most widely used form of plasmapheresis, a needle is inserted into a vein in a patient's arm to withdraw blood. Then it flows into a machine that spins to create the centrifugal force that separates the plasma from the cellular components according to their density.  As the blood cells flow back into the patient, the discarded plasma is replaced by equal volumes of other fluids. These are usually fresh-frozen plasma donated by another person, albumin, or a fraction of plasma protein. Hence the name plasma exchange.  There is still little scientific basis for choosing one or another replacement fluid, and that choice, so far, seems to have little influence on the outcome of most conditions. Experts interviewed said the decision was one of many points needing further study. Up to one and one-half gallons of plasma can be removed at each procedure, which, depending on the amount removed, can take up to four hours. Plasmapheresis may need to be done repeatedly, at a cost of up to $2,000 each time. Sometimes repeated plasmapheresis requires surgeons to make a fistula, a sort of permanent ''tap'' between an artery and a vein to give them ready access to the blood.  Plasmapheresis is still not a proven cure for any disorder, though by treating the complications it has lessened suffering and helped prolong lives. Generally, it is used to alleviate symptoms, reduce the potential for deleterious complications, and enhance drug therapy. Medical journals are filled with anecdotal reports of physicians trying plasmapheresis as a last resort, saying, in effect, ''Let's try it and see what happens. What have we to lose?''  But there have been very few large scientifically controlled trials meeting the standards that would be required to recommend widespread use of the procedure.  One reason the data are missing is that many of the conditions in which plasmapheresis has been reported beneficial are rare. To accumulate enough cases and experience, coordinated efforts by doctors in several medical centers would be required.  The technique of plasmapheresis was first devised in 1914, but its use was limited for many years because there was no automatic machinery for separating the blood fractions. It took about five hours to remove one liter of plasma.  Apparently, however, the first report of success in a scientific journal came in 1962 from Dr. Alan Solomon and Dr. John L. Fahey at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md. They treated 10 patients who had developed thickened blood due to the accumulation of proteins, a condition called macroglobulinemia. Since then, plasmapheresis has become a life-saving technique for many patients with that condition.  The automated equipment that is now used for plasmapheresis was developed in the 1960's to harvest cells for blood banks to aid in the treatment of cancer and many blood disorders. There Are Several Versions  There are now several types of plasmapheresis. The use of such techniques as hollow fiber membrane systems and filtration with charcoal, cryogel and other substances allows removal of specific blood components and return of the processed blood to the patient. The aims are a more specific and presumably improved therapy and a reduction in the amount of plasma used.  The cost of plasma is a source of concern because in recent years the use of plasmapheresis for therapeutic purposes has increased dramatically. In 1980, American doctors did an estimated 40,000 procedures, compared to about 10,000 in 1978, according to data presented at an international symposium on plasmapheresis at the Cleveland Clinic earlier this month. In 1985, the projection is for some 200,000 procedures. However, one expert, Dr. John Verrier Jones, who has moved from Chicago to Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, said he doubted that the rise will be as steep.  Because most of the purported benefits have been reported anecdotally, unsubjected to scientifically controlled studies, controversy has grown over the costs and benefits of plasmapheresis and appeals made for more and longer followup studies. Claims of benefit for various types of apheresis in common disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, which affects an estimated 6 million Americans, lend urgency to the need for studies. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
