19811031
WASHINGTON, Oct. 30— Since the spring of 1979, gavel-to-gavel television coverage of proceedings in the House of Representatives has been beamed into the homes, offices and classrooms of millions of Americans.  Fearful that the Senate is lagging far behind both the White House and the House in public exposure, Senator Howard H. Baker Jr. of Tennessee, the majority leader, is leading the fight for televising Senate proceedings - an idea that some of his colleagues regard as heretical. In an interview yesterday in his office, just a few steps from the Senate floor, Senator Baker spoke about why he feels the Senate must move into the electronic age.  Q. As the chief sponsor of the bill to televise the Senate, why do you feel it is an important step to take? A. I think it is important because a fundamental part of the parliamentary system of Government, which includes our own Congressional forum, is public access to the means and methods by which public policy is formulated. I think that had radio and television existed at the time of the framing of the Constitution and the design of our structure of government by our founding fathers that they would have included electronic access as well as personal access to the public galleries. In my view, radio and television access is a simple extension of the public galleries in the House and Senate chambers.  Q. Do you feel perhaps that the White House has had an advantage over the Senate because of the President's frequent use of television in taking his case to the people?  A. Clearly. Presidential power has grown because it is the center, the focus of public attention in controversy, in adulation, in scorn, in praise. I think clearly the President has had an advantage, partly because the Presidential presence is strong and central and is perceived as such by the country. The Congress has been less visible for most of the country's history. But not all of it. I would challenge you to remember who was President, for instance, when Henry Clay and John Calhoun were the dominant figures in the public forum in the 19th century.  Q. Along that same line, do you think that the House has gained a greater visibility in the eyes of the public because its proceedings are televised?  A. Yes, I do. And I don't begrudge the House that recognition or the public attention they gain by appearing on the network news in the midst of their deliberations or on cable television increasingly around the country. But it does mean that if we don't get television in the Senate in a decade or less, the House will be the dominant partner in the Congressional branch.  Q. Do you feel that the House has functioned better than the Senate since it started televising its proceedings? A. Since I'm a creature of the Senate, I will never concede that the House functions better than the Senate. But I am prepared to say that, in my judgment, the quality of debate, the level of parliamentary skill, the importance of the proceedings on the floor and I believe even the quality of the legislative product have improved in the House since the advent of television.  Q. Senator Russell Long of Louisiana has suggested every senator would become more verbose, would become a prima donna, if the Senate permits television. Do you have any such fear?  A. It's hard to conceive of any of us becoming more verbose than circumstances already permit. And we must concede in our most private moments that all of us are prima donnas. But I don't think it will increase that one bit. On the contrary, I think it will diminish it. One of the values of television I have always thought is that you can spot a phony.  Q. Some critics have suggested that since some of the most qualified senators are not necessarily the best speakers they might come off badly on television. Do you agree?  A. Television really doesn't lend itself to oratory. Think back and judge the high-impact situations you have seen on television. They're not usually keynote addresses at national conventions. I know, I made one. They are not verbosity in the political campaign. They are more often than not quiet and intimate, the clear appeal of human being to human being that is transmitted so effectively by television. I do not believe that television favors those who are loud. Television favors those who are real.  Q. You have said that the Senate is not the great deliberative body it has been at times in the past. How would television improve deliberations?  A. I think the schedule of the Senate would be tightened, the time for debate would be more tightly confined, the quality of debate would improve.  Q. When do you intend to call the bill to the floor? A. I haven't decided yet. But we'll reach it, maybe later this year, maybe early next year.  Q. What is the outlook? A. I think we'll pass it.  Q. Will there be a filibuster? A. I think almost certainly to win we'll have to have the 60 votes that are required to end a filibuster. And I'm encouraged to think that we can get those. Marjorie Hunter 
