20070111
 Forum-Shopper of the Year   By Cass, Ronald A, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 12, 2007  Anna Nicole Smith makes for good copy. America's most gaudy litigant has spent the last few months dodging eviction notices in the Bahamas and paternity-test subpoenas in the U.S. A few days after the death of her son, she donned a wedding dress for a "commitment ceremony" with her attorney, then made almost a million dollars selling photos of her late son's last hours, her new baby and her "wedding" to tabloid magazines. In the midst of all of this, she has kept up her long- running litigation over the estate of her late husband, J. Howard Marshall II. The litigation, which initially was filed more than a dozen years ago against heirs to the estate of her husband, has changed into a suit against the heirs of E. Pierce Marshall, her husband's son, who died unexpectedly last summer.  Proceedings in California between the parties have resumed, and the Ninth Circuit will likely take this matter up again in the spring. When it does, it will look at alternative doctrines that could avoid conflict between state and federal decisions. For example, "claim preclusion" prevents a second court (federal or state) from deciding a legal claim that was asserted in another court and "issue preclusion" prevents decision on a particular issue that was disposed of by another court. These doctrines are broader than the "probate exception" to federal jurisdiction addressed by the Supreme Court but do not have the same tension with federal court supremacy.  The problem is particularly acute for businesses, which fear that threats of costly litigation will be leverage for settlements. Such strategic use of litigation can occur because the litigation costs and risks are not symmetrical -- some litigants have more to lose than others. Some law firms specializing in suing businesses, and some state attorneys general, rely on strategies that exploit risk sensitivity to extract settlements, at times very substantial ones. The behavior of former AG Eliot Spitzer and indictments of key partners at the plaintiffs' law firm Milberg Weiss highlight the problem. Risks associated with ordinary litigation are magnified by opportunities to choose favorable venues for litigation, and even more by the prospect that litigants can engage in a repeat-play game, trying successive venues in search of a sympathetic forum. Forum shopping smacks of manipulation to reduce predictability and to secure biased decision makers.   
