20051002
 EBay Draws Skype Skeptics On Wall Street   By Mangalindan, Mylene, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 3, 2005  Citigroup Inc. analyst Mark Mahaney says he can justify only half of the deal's $2.6 billion price tag. Mr. Mahaney, who rates the stock "buy" and doesn't own eBay shares, calculates that if [Skype] produces 2006 revenue of $200 million and generates a 25% earnings margin before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Skype's earnings will total $50 million. If $50 million is multiplied by a 25- times multiple -- the number that was used to value other Internet deals such as eBay's purchase of Shopping.com and IAC/InterActive Corp.'s acquisition of Ask Jeeves -- that results in a $1.3 billion value.  Rajiv Dutta, eBay's chief financial officer, says Skype is a great stand-alone business, one that benefits as more people join the network. He says the proper context for valuing Skype is by comparing it to eBay and PayPal at the same stage in their development. After two years of generating revenue, Skype's projected revenue of $60 million this year beats the $47 million eBay generated at the same point in its life, though it falls short of the $100 million that PayPal was producing in its second year.  By some measures, eBay is paying less for Skype than it did for other deals, Mr. Dutta says. By shelling out $2.6 billion for Skype's 54 million customers, the Internet auctioneer is spending $55 for each Skype customer, less than the $80 it paid for each PayPal customer, he notes. In addition, the Skype purchase is 4.8% of the eBay's market value of $55 billion, while PayPal was 8%.  What is more, it isn't clear how much more eBay will be able to charge [Skype] users for Internet phone calls. With Skype users already able to call one another without charge, as more consumers use its software, even more people will be able to contact one another free. "As the network grows, the revenue opportunities shrink," says Bear Stearns Cos. analyst Robert Peck. Mr. Peck, who doesn't own eBay shares, rates the stock "peer perform." He says Internet calls may enable buyers and sellers to complete transactions off eBay, cheating eBay out of a commission.  Rajiv Dutta, eBay's chief financial officer, says Skype is a great stand-alone business, one that benefits as more people join the network. He says the proper context for valuing Skype is by comparing it to eBay and PayPal at the same stage in their development. After two years of generating revenue, Skype's projected revenue of $60 million this year beats the $47 million eBay generated at the same point in its life, though it falls short of the $100 million that PayPal was producing in its second year.  By some measures, eBay is paying less for Skype than it did for other deals, Mr. Dutta says. By shelling out $2.6 billion for Skype's 54 million customers, the Internet auctioneer is spending $55 for each Skype customer, less than the $80 it paid for each PayPal customer, he notes. In addition, the Skype purchase is 4.8% of the eBay's market value of $55 billion, while PayPal was 8%.   
