19811202
By Christopher Lehmann-Haupt SPRING MOON. A Novel of China. By Bette Bao Lord. 464 pages. Harper & Row. $14.95.  THERE is cause to have high hopes for Bette Bao Lord's historical fiction, ''Spring Moon: A Novel of China.'' If nothing else, there is the Prologue, set in 1892, in which Plum Blossom, the slave girl of the young Spring Moon, bitterly laments the news that she is to be given away as a concubine to pay a gambling debt incurred by the mandarin House of Chang.  When Spring Moon tries to intervene in Plum Blossom's behalf, she learns from the dying family patriarch that the debt is simply an honorable ruse to provide an old friend with someone to bear his children, a role that Plum Blossom might accept if she understood. But before Spring Moon can tell her, the slave girl takes matters into her own hands. Spring Moon finds her in the Cypress Garden, dangling ''from a limb. She had dressed for her journey in the finest silks, a holiday scarf around her neck.'' Stuff of Folk Tales  Not only is this incident the stuff of folk tales, it also artfully prefigures the larger action of the novel. It puts a symbolic curse on the House of Chang that will not be redeemed by 100 years of violent history. It is also the first in a series of antitraditional acts that all together can be seen as China's experience in the 20th century.  And as well as this prologue and its dramatic aftermath, Mrs. Lord has a number of other promising episodes to work with. There is the incestuous love affair that develops between Spring Moon and her uncle, the new patriarch of the House of Chang, Bold Talent. There is the marriage of Spring Moon's daughter, Lustrous Jade, to a peasant revolutionary, and the couple's deepening involvement wth the vanguard of the Chinese revolution. Indeed, there is the entire historical backdrop of this multigenerational epic - from the Boxer Uprising through the Long March to Henry A. Kissinger's secret mission to Peking in 1971.  Yet somehow all this promise is never quite fulfilled. There are a number of high points - the wedding night of Spring Moon and Glad Promise, when two enlightened young participants in an arranged marriage, while trying to respect family tradition, discover they would rather play chess than pretend to be in love. And a family reunion in the Epilogue at which the 90-year-old Spring Moon drinks champagne with her 60-year-old son from her incestuous affair, who still believes that Spring Moon is his sister.  There are also some occasional low points - a too precious conversation in which Spring Moon praises her daughter for having mastered the difficult lesson that ''The caterpillar must weave a cocoon, and live within it alone'' before emerging as a caterpillar; and a sentence that reads, ''The stench of burning combs, rubber tires, soap, silks, perfumes, umbrellas, tooth powders, toys, books, clocks, medicines, thermos bottles, was overpowering,'' which must break the all-time record for precise analysis of the elements of a stench.  But in between these extremes, the narrative of ''Spring Moon'' often has a peculiar quality of half-hearted gesture, as if it were signaling its story instead of rolling up its sleeves and acting it out. Sometimes there is a mood of elegy so overpowering that we feel as if the events of the story died before they ever had a chance to happen.  There are several possible explanations for this narrative velleity. One of them is the degree to which Mrs. Lord is bent on celebrating the traditional Chinese past, particularly the importance of family ties and the grace of the rituals that tied one generation to the next. She achieves this celebration quite beautifully at times, but in the process the past has trouble existing as a living present.  Another possible explanation is the extent to which history overwhelms Mrs. Lord's characters. There is a detailed chronology of actual public events in the back of the book, which I had the bad luck to discover just as I was beginning it. There are italicized summaries of pertinent history at the beginning of each chapter. Thus, when potentially dismaying development that the Chang family's Communist connections have been discovered by the Kuomintang, our reaction is to shrug and reassure ourselves, ''It doesn't matter. Lustrous Jade and her husband will escape on the Long March. The rest of the family will make it to Hong Kong.'' In her Epilogue, Mrs. Lord admits to being something of a fatalist. Perhaps she has given historical fate too much of the upper hand here. Family's History  There is one other clue that too much history may be the source of the novel's problem. In an interview that accompanies the book's elaborate promotional material, Mrs. Lord explains that she had originally meant to write a nonfiction account of her family's history up to the time she returned to China as the wife of Mr. Kissinger's principal State Department adviser. But Chinese politics remained too uncertain to risk calling attention to her clan in this way. So she decide to novelize the story, figuring the rest would be easy.  It wasn't at all, of course, as she soon discovered. The biggest problem, she admits, was explaining why her characters would act or feel a particular way. This strongly suggests that her story came first in Mrs. Lord's imagination, and that her characters' feeling were subsequently tailored to fit this story. Perhaps next time she should try it the other way around. Maybe she ought to discover her characters first, and then see what they do as a consequence of who they are.  Illustrations: photo of Bette Bao Lord 
