20061102
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Review / Film -- With Insults for All: In Irreverent 'Borat,' Idiocy Has Never Looked Smarter; Baron Cohen's Kazakh Reporter Files Stunningly Funny Satire; 'Volver' Is Classic Almodovar   By Morgenstern, Joe, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 3, 2006  What's so appealing about Borat is the ironclad integrity of his idiocy -- mistaking an Oliver Hardy wannabe for Adolf Hitler, a yard sale for a gypsy encampment, a turtle for a dog, an elevator for a hotel room. Never once does the actor step outside his character to comment on him. It's enough that Borat combines an unquenchable jubilance with the lechery of Groucho Marx and the taut anxiety of Alan Arkin. He's a world traveler who can help replenish the New World's dwindling supply of irreverence. That's the best thing about "Borat." Not since the halcyon days of Archie Bunker and "All in the Family" has so sharp a wit punctured so many balloons.  The film itself ballooned into a phenomenon well before today's opening, thanks in large part to Sacha [Baron Cohen]'s indefatigable publicity push on its behalf. Does that mean it will be a monster hit? Probably so, though who knows. We've become a society that dotes on outrageousness, but also processes it into media Velveeta. And if truth be told about Mr. Baron Cohen's vulgarian truth-teller, his antics pale now and then. The screenplay, which the star wrote with Anthony Hines, Peter Baynham and Dan Mazer, is a randomish assortment of wonderful, remarkably good and not-so-hot comic notions unified mainly by the cross-country trip, and by the hero's obsession with "Baywatch," Malibu and Pamela Anderson, who plays herself in a not-so- hot encounter that's more anti than climactic. (Apparently what's on screen was culled from many hours of material that could continue to languish as outtakes, or conceivably see the light of day in some different form.)  [Raimunda]'s story is the easiest one to follow -- it's all about mobilizing her formidable talents when the ground beneath her feet suddenly crumbles -- and Ms. [Penelope Cruz]'s performance is the easiest one to dress with a necklace of adjectives: dazzling, passionate, witty and mercurial, yet all the while implacably grounded, like the legendary Anna Magnani, who shows up briefly on a TV screen. Though this is the best work she's ever done, Ms. Cruz has been dazzling before, most recently in "All About My Mother." You'd never know it, alas, from the English-language films that have squandered her gifts, such stinkers as "Vanilla Sky," "Captain Corelli's Mandolin" and "Woman on Top" (in which she also played a cook, frantically).   
