19820602
A Roman Catholic priest was robbed of nearly $6,000 in weekend church receipts in Brooklyn yesterday. Two suspects were arrested when their motorcycle slammed into a tree after a chase in the Park Slope section, the police said.  The priest, the Rev. Louis Kennedy of the Holy Family Roman Catholic Church, Fourth Avenue and Ninth Street, was in clerical garb. He was inside a branch of the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company at 444 Fifth Avenue with an envelope containing $2,750 in cash and $3,086 in checks, given at weekend services.  Suddenly, according to the police, a man grabbed the envelope from Father Kennedy's hand, ran out of the bank and jumped onto the back of a motorcycle, which was waiting with a driver. The motorcycle sped from the scene. Similar Robberies Reported  Two plainclothes officers from the 78th Precinct had been trailing the two men earlier that morning, because similar snatch-and-run robberies had been reported in the area, but had lost them in traffic. The officers spotted the two running a red light as the motorcycle raced north on Fourth Avenue.  ''They were in a big hurry,'' said one of the officers, William Pavone. ''We followed them up Fourth Avenue and turned east on Carroll. As they got to Sixth Avenue, they dropped a white canvas bag. We came up behind them and I announced myself as a police officer and told them to pull over.  ''They grabbed the bag and sped off, but about halfway up the block they lost control and crashed into a tree. They actually cut the tree in half. The bike went flying. The money went flying. Then it was just a matter of scooping everything up.''  The suspects were identified as 21-year-old Kenneth Thompson of 186-10 Mangin Avenue, St. Albans, Queens, who the police said took the money from Father Kennedy, and Mr. Thompson's brother David, 19, of 51 Marlborough Road, Brooklyn. They were taken to Kings County Hospital, where they were placed under police guard and charged with robbery and criminal possession of stolen property. Their condition was not known. 
