19810217
Some black parents of children at Intermediate School 231 in Springfield Gardens, Queens, summarize in a few words what they believe underlies the legal battles, rallies, boycotts and sit-ins that white parents have undertaken to keep the school's Rosedale annex open: The majority, they say, is afraid to become the minority.  ''Whites in Rosedale are interested in integration up to a point,'' said Cynthia Doyle, a black Rosedale resident whose 12-year-old daughter, Erica, is in the seventh grade at the main building. ''At that point, when blacks outnumber whites, they are no longer interested in integration. As long as they have control and know they will continue to be the majority, they are interested in integration.''  About 98 percent of the students at I.S. 231 are black, while those at the annex were predominately white. School Chancellor Frank J. Macchiarola ordered the annex closed Jan. 30 and its 375 students transferred to the main school after the Federal Office for Civil Rights found that the establishment of the annex had resulted in segregation at the main building.  Many black parents of I.S. 231 students say they listen with disbelief and anger to white parents' assertions that they are not racially motivated and that their concern is that the main school is not safe for their children because of what they call unhealthy conditions and violence.  ''Our school has been maligned, our children are upset and the parents are upset,'' said Miranda Smith, who moved with her family from Springfield Gardens to Rosedale 10 years ago. Her son attends I.S. 231, and she is a board member of the school's Parent-Teacher Association.  ''I could have sent my son to the annex, but I saw no need,'' she continued. ''He already had a high-quality neigborhood school in I.S. 231. The boys have to take their hats off when they enter the building. Teachers notify parents when the children have not been doing their homework. Would you believe this is the bad school that whites are talking about?''  Rosedale became a public symbol of housing discrimination in New York more than 10 years ago, when blacks moving into what was then a white neighborhood of Irish, Italians and Jews were met with firebombings and rock-tossing. The school dispute began three and a half years ago when the local school board, citing overcrowding at the main building, established the annex. Most of the white children at I.S. 231 were from Rosedale, and their transfer left the student body at the main building almost entirely black.  ''I don't know why the white parents say those things,'' said William Heath, an eighth-grade student at I.S 231, as he attempted to explain why white parents were defying orders to send their children to his school. ''They say that the school is unsafe, but that's not true - no one is going to bother the white kids.''  William, who is 14 years old, was among about 200 protesters preparing to march one night recently in front of the Queens home of Borough President Donald R. Manes. They said they were demonstrating against Mr. Manes's support of the Rosedale parents who wished to keep the annex open.  ''I have white friends at I.S. 231, and we get along fine,'' William said, hunching his shoulders against a windswept winter drizzle. ''Black and white kids can be friends. It's the parents.  ''The parents believe something is wrong with us and our school, and if they think it, they will teach their kids the same thing. And so on and so on. They have to stop it before it gets any worse.''  Illustrations: Map of Queens 
