19810226
IT wasn't until Lisa Cowen, a designer, had looked all over town for a new apartment that she decided to stay in the one she had lived in for ll years.  ''I was separated and getting divorced,'' Mrs. Cowen explained, ''and I didn't want to live with anything that represented my past.'' But because her apartment was near her children's schools, she decided to change it, and instead of moving, make it work for her family's new needs.  Mrs. Cowen hired Kevin Walz, an interior designer, to undertake the project. The renovation was based on a complete redesign of her living space - to make the relatively small rooms double as entertaining and play spaces. Construction costs came to $62,000, not including furniture, lighting fixtures, carpeting and the slate floor.  ''From the outset, I told him that what I wanted was an apartment which worked as a unified whole but would also function as separate entities,'' Mrs. Cowen said.  That meant providing secluded rooms for Mrs. Cowen and her two children, Jodi, 12 years old, and Christopher, 9, as well as a room where they could all get together. ''Our bedrooms were to be our separate, private houses-within-a-house,'' Mrs. Cowen said. ''But we all wanted to have a common living space.''  Mr. Walz considered the three-bedroom apartment. ''A typical layout with very low ceilings, no provisions for ceiling lighting and really terrible access from the bedrooms to the living room,'' he said.  A tiny hallway with distracting closet doors, a galley kitchen and a dining room that had a claustrophobic feeling were other problems. ''One-third of the living space was being used for traffic, simply to get from one room to the other,'' Mr. Walz said. ''We decided to restructure the central core of the apartment to get more living space out of it.''  The 46-foot-long, 13 1/2-foot-wide living/dining room was completely revamped. ''It was not enormous, so I had to make use of every inch,'' Mr. Walz added. He divided the main space into a living room, a ''den'' area with bookshelves and stereo/television storage and a dining/family room.  ''I didn't like formal dining rooms anyway,'' Mrs. Cowen said, ''that big table sticking out and those six chairs.'' Rather, Mrs. Cowen felt that what she and her children needed was a place to relax together; to talk, to play, to do homework. And to eat. ''The children like to eat together,'' she said, ''and this arrangement allows me to still convert the area into a dining room when I have guests.''  The seating and tables by Mr. Walz made the scheme feasible. Instead of a large, cumbersome single table, there are three small marble-topped tables on casters. Two are stored under a counter, the other by the sofa. Chairs are stacked in the corner. For Mrs. Cowen's eight-person dinner parties, the three tables are wheeled together and the chairs brought out. A sofa and small chaise are for extra seating.  The furniture is unusual in itself. Except for two Alvar Aalto chairs in the living room, all the seating was designed by Mr. Walz and consists of carpeted platform bases topped with soft leather upholstery. The matching round-edged short chaises are the designer's invention.  ''They're for sitting in different directions,'' said Mr. Walz of the appealing units, which are used both in the dining room and adjoining living room. ''A person can stretch out alone, or two or three people can crowd together,'' he added. ''It's not formal furniture.''  Although all the seating units look built-in, they can actually be moved around, and reused in a different apartment, should Mrs. Cowen ever decide to move. ''Kids like to run around,'' Mr. Walz said. ''Nothing is perishable. We used materials that couldn't be ruined and wouldn't wear out.''  While the sofa and chaise backs are made out of Masonite and covered in galvanized steel, the down upholstery is brown leather, to match the backs. ''Masonite has a depth and beautiful surface,'' said Mr. Walz. ''It was outrageous to match expensive leather to such an inexpensive material.''  The use of contrasting and contradictory materials is one of Mr. Walz's specialties. The brown upholstery, dark gray slate floor and coffee table and dark charcoal carpeting are a sober yet unexpected color scheme.  The serving counter in the dining room was made of galvanized steel, ''garbage can material,'' said Mr. Walz, ''but it can also take hot casseroles.''  But more than anything else, the design of the Cowen apartment is an answer to the restrictive problems of a small modern space where flexibility is a necessity rather than a luxury.  Mrs. Cowen also sees the renovation in abstract terms, equating the new openness of the apartment and the uninhibited movement it offers with a sense of both physical and psychological freedom.  ''I closed my eyes and let it happen,'' she said of the renovation. ''Now I feel liberated and able to start anew.''  Illustrations: photos 
