19810715
THE omens seemed right for Emmylou Harris's concert Monday night at the Dr Pepper Festival. Although the weather looked increasingly muggy and ominous as the afternoon advanced, by 7:15, when Miss Harris appeared, it had cleared gloriously and a fresh breeze was blowing off the Hudson - making the festival's new pier site all the more appealing.  Miss Harris seemed in positively buoyant form. The maternal constraints of her recent appearnces were replaced by a newly trim figure, decked out in a costume of red boots, jeans and a see-through lingerie sleeveless red top and matching fingerless long gloves that she referred to as ''my outfit from Ted's Flaming Steaks.'' She joked, she laughed, and she cavorted animatedly about the stage. And she had a reformed, top-flight version of her Hot Band to cavort with.  One puts such an emphasis on all this cavorting because, quite apart from motherhood, Miss Harris has seemed a sometimes excessively sad-eyed, not to say mopey, performer. This writer even had a theory that destiny had meant her to be a backup singer, the best in recent memory, and that singing lead made her subconsciously uncomfortable.  The reason for the theory, apart from her keening, nasally pure soprano and her always arresting ear for harmonies, lay in the image of femininity she presented. Miss Harris was the eternal grieving angel, with her long straight hair and delicately sculptured features. For all her recent flirtations with a supposedly purer form of bluegrass, her musical style was in fact predictably fixed: enough electrification to be up to date but grounded in traditional country Americana. She was the hip innocent of modern country music, her roots attested through spiritual affinity rather than the accidents of biography. That is an image with an undeniably deep appeal, but it had its limits both musically and emotionally.  Her concert was the best in this writer's experience, not just because she seemed to be having such a good time, although that always has a warming effect. It was also because she managed to expand her range without compromising what she has done so well. Her voice was in fine, sure shape, capable of refined control. More crucially, her set built confidently the way country-pop-rock performances are supposed to, but far too often do not. It was a lovely performance, and it suggests that Miss Harris has found a way to deepen her repertory and appeal over the years to come. John Rockwell 
