19990520
 World Watch   By Compiled by David I. Oyama, The Wall Street Journal,  May 21, 1999  Allianz, Europe's biggest insurance company, said it is shopping for acquisitions in the U.S. and Britain, and added that a planned listing next year on the New York Stock Exchange will help it in acquiring U.S. insurers. Though Allianz is one of the world's largest insurance concerns, it lags behind global rivals such as AXA of France and American International Group in key markets such as the U.S. and Britain. Chief Executive Henning Schulte-Noelle said he wants to propel Allianz into the top five in the world's leading markets. Having its shares listed in the U.S. would give Allianz a valuable currency in buying both life and nonlife insurers, the market values of which have soared in recent years.  British brewer and hotel group Bass announced higher-than-expected first-half pretax profit, boosted by strong performance in the group's hotel and pub divisions. Pretax profit of GBP 276 million ($446.6 million) exceeded analysts' estimates, which ranged from GBP 254 million to GBP 265 million, and sent Bass shares up 4.9% in London trading. First-half earnings were actually lower than a year earlier, when earnings benefited from a GBP 229 million exceptional gain and a share buyback. Profit on continuing operations for the 28 weeks ended April 10 rose 17% to GBP 352 million, from GBP 300 million the year before.  South Africa's largest insurance and investment group said it will raise GBP 377 million ($610 million) from its initial public stock offering on the London Stock Exchange in July. Old Mutual, known as the South African Mutual Life Assurance Society prior to becoming Old Mutual PLC, will use the proceeds to retire debt incurred in two British acquisitions, to bolster its international business, and for costs of converting from a mutual society owned by policyholders to a publicly held company. Upon listing July 12, Old Mutual will command a market capitalization of about GBP 4.15 billion, qualifying it for inclusion in the FTSE-100 index of top U.K. companies. The company will maintain secondary listings on the Johannesburg and other African stock exchanges. Old Mutual is the latest South African concern to eschew the country as its base.   
