19810902
Irmgard Bartenieff, founder of the Laban Institute of Movement Studies in New York and a movement theoretician, died on Thursday in St. Luke's Hospital. She was 81 years old.  A writer on physical ther apy and dance nota tion, Mrs. Bartenieff was described by the late Margaret Mead as '' a most remarkable woman.''  Born in Germany, Mrs. Bartenieff began to study in 1925 with Rudolf Laban, a pioneering figure in Central European modern dance and a dance theoretician, with whom she worked intermittently until his death in 1958. She and her husband, the late Michail Bartenieff, toured with their own company before fleeing Germany in 1936, but it was on their arrival in the United States that Mrs. Bartenieff's most important work began. Worked as Dance Therapist  Mrs. Bartenieff taught, wrote and lectured here on Labanotation, a system of dance notation developed by Laban. After receiving a degree in physical therapy from New York University in 1943, she went on to work with polio victims, conduct developmental research on newborn children and teach movement classes for actors and dancers.  From 1957 to 1967, Mrs. Bartenieff worked as a dance therapist and research assistant in nonverbal behavior at the Day Hospital of the Albert Einstein Medical College, developing a system of observation and notation of patient behavior using Laban movement-analysis techniques. She specialized in dance injuries and back problems in her private practice and worked from 1964 to 1966 with Alan Lomax on the Choreometrics Project, an innovative study of correlations between economic structures and work and dance movement in different cultures. Founded Institute  A senior member of the Dance Notation Bureau of New York since 1942, Mrs. Bartenieff helped to develop research and training programs for social-science professionals and performing artists. In 1978 she founded the Laban (now the Laban/Bartenieff ) Institute of Movement Studies in New York. She contributed to such journals as Main Currents, Physical Therapy Review and Dance Scope. Her book, ''Body Movement: Coping with the Environment,'' was published last year.  Mrs. Bartenieff is survived by two sons, I. John Barrett and George Bartenieff, and three grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Sept. 11 at 10 A.M. at the New York Society for Ethical Culture. 
