19811117
By John Leonard BISMARCK. By Edward Crankshaw. Illus- trated. 451 pages. Viking. $19.95.  EDWARD CRANKSHAW has a few kind things to say about Otto von Bismarck. He was ''the most intelligent statesman of his age,'' although that age is to be deplored. He was a wonderful writer, although his memoirs are not to be trusted, and neither are his letters. He was a ''creative artist'' and a ''genius,'' although his genius was neurotic, autocratic, opportunistic and nihilistic. He was sincere about his Protestant God, although he seems to have imagined that God as a sort of unindicted co-conspirator in his Kulturkampf and Realpolitiking. He could be very funny, at someone else's expense.  ''His megalomania,'' we are told, ''lacked the uncomprehending purity which distinguished the megalomania of those deluded and deluding scourges of modern times, Napoleon Bonaparte, Lenin, Hitler.'' I'm not sure whether this is kind or not. Mischief His Career  But Bismarck was also, according to Mr. Crankshaw, ''the Philistine master of a parvenu kingdom,'' a ''semi-Bonapartist dictator,'' an ''overbearing, insensitive bully,'' a stranger to ''scruple and inhibition,'' a ''betrayer of his own class,'' a liar and a trickster, disloyal to his friends, ''tortured by ambition,'' lacking ''inner coherence,'' concealing a ''void,'' reckless and hysterical and paranoid, ''not civilized at all'': ''He cheated and made mischief all his life.'' Of people, ''he understood their weakness and nothing else.''  He was, moreover, unpleasant to look at. Whether languid in a dressing gown in St. Petersburg or ''somber in sea-boots and donkeyjacket'' or statesmanlike in ''floppy hat and an overcoat down to the ground, accompanied by crop-eared mastiffs as surly-looking as their master'' or preposterous ''in spiked helmet and calvary jackboots,'' he was ''grossly overweight, bloated, ravaged.'' Even his teeth ''were in terrible shape, but he would not see a dentist.'' And he was often sick. He suffered, especially in times of crisis, from neuralgia, rheumatism, gout, migraine, gallstones, varicose veins, influenza, jaundice, shingles, piles, gastric upsets, constipation, stomach aches and cramps. That he lived to be 80 is an amazement.  Clearly, Mr. Crankshaw is not delighted by his subject. But Mr. Crankshaw writes so well that the reader is delighted by Mr. Crankshaw. As in his books on Tolstoy, Khrushchev, the Hapsburgs, Maria Theresa, Joseph Conrad and the Gestapo, he masters the literature, forms his opinions and produces popular history of uncommon grace and liveliness. Whether his account of Bismarck is superior to that of A.J.P. Taylor, whom he chides, we must leave to the experts; I haven't seen Lother Gall's recent biography, which is said to be twice as long as this one.  Mr. Crankshaw and Mr. Taylor agree on basics: the Junker father, the difficult mother, the unhappy school days, the adolescent escapades; ''the Pomeranian prodigy'' - romantic, full of Byron, inclined to the usual gorges and waterfalls and fir trees and tomtits - who managed to offend almost everybody in Prussia and was sent nevertheless to Frankfurt, where he offended the Austrians; the exceedingly undiplomatic diplomat ''in cold storage'' in St. Petersburg, causing trouble in Paris, falling in love and finding God, hungry for ''all-or-nothing'' power; the extreme reactionary who became what Henry A. Kissinger would call ''the white revolutionary'' on being summoned to serve a king who couldn't stand him; the browbeater of William I for 30 years as ''Minister-President''; the promulgator of ''blood and iron'' who made war on Denmark, Austria and France; the unifier of all the little Germanys; the keeper of the European peace for more than two decades after the Congress of Berlin; ''the nerve-racked titan.''  That Bismarck came late to German nationalism is obvious. That he was helped along by the industrial revolution, by bankers like Bleichroder and manufacturers like Krupp and military men like Moltke, is also obvious. That he played fast and loose with a Parliament he despised, and bribed journalists and censored newspapers and jailed political opponents and declared war on the Roman Catholic Church, is on the record. He signed treaties in order to repudiate them, connived at secret-leaking and throat-cutting all over the Continent and died unhappy. A Void at the Core  Mr. Taylor, aware of these huge warts, still saw Bismarck as ''a despairing conservative.'' Mr. Crankshaw sees him as an empty opportunist who stunted the political development of Germany, allowed the military to aggrandize itself, castrated liberalism and opened the door to a Hitler he would have loathed as much as he loathed William II. To be sure, ''Inevitability was a concept he instinctively rejected'' and the idea of ''the self-centered state, concerned only with its own security and growth'' led him to bridle his adventurism; he saw no point in conquering and ruling ''alien races.'' But his ''will-power and drive'' were personal and blind; it is as though his legacy to all Germans was his own inner ''void.''  Whereas Mr. Taylor emphasized Bismarck's superb timing, his brilliant improvisations, Mr. Crankshaw emphasizes his mistakes. Both agree that he was incapable of imagining a future without himself. I wonder whether he wasn't the first ''mass politician''; Mr. Crankshaw goes on at length about the Kulturkampf but reduces to a single paragraph those successful social security programs - insurance against sickness, accidents and old age - by which he subverted his bourgeois and left-wing opposition. In this, like Metternich, he was rather a Grand Inquisitor and one of the odd fathers of our affectless welfare state.  Disraeli liked him more than Mr. Crankshaw does, but then Mr. Crankshaw doesn't like Disraeli either. 
