20030602
 Will Arafat Pull the Rug Out From Under Peace Talks? --- Bush Wants to Anoint Abbas This Week, but PLO Chief Still Retains Vast Influence   By By Christopher Cooper in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, and Guy Chazan in Jerusalem, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 3, 2003  On a more practical level, as president Mr. [Yasser Arafat] has the ability to fire Mr. [Mahmoud Abbas] if he so desires. The relationship between Mr. Arafat and his former top deputy has had its ups and downs over the years, and it was clear Mr. Arafat didn't want to appoint Mr. Abbas prime minister in the first place. "Sometimes Arafat treated him like dirt, sometimes like a brother," Mr. [Martin Indyk] said. He said the two men have had disagreements over the years, most notably about the conduct and duration of the intifada, a bloody Palestinian resistance movement that has lasted nearly three years.  Mr. Arafat's supporters say he is unlikely to do this, noting that peace and a Palestinian state have long been Mr. Arafat's stated goals. Edward Abington, a Washington lobbyist for the Palestinian government, says he met twice last week with Mr. Arafat, and urged him to support the peace process. "I told him the alternative was disaster," said Mr. Abington, adding that Mr. Arafat replied that he would support the roadmap and support Mr. Abbas.  If so, that would be good news to Washington because Mr. Arafat remains an important figure in many quarters. In the past week, though Bulgarian Foreign Minister Solomon Passy bowed to U.S. pressure not to meet with Mr. Arafat, both French and Spanish foreign ministers did visit him in Ramallah, much to the annoyance of the Americans and the Israelis. A continued insistence by Arab leaders to engage Mr. Arafat is also a problem, one the U.S. and Israel hope will be ameliorated to an extent today, when Mr. Abbas meets with President Bush and Arab leaders in Egypt. It is with this meeting that the U.S. hopes some of Mr. Arafat's international appeal will begin to accrue to Mr. Abbas, also known as Abu Mazen.   
