19811001
BRIGHTON, England, Sept. 30— The Labor Party voted by a large majority today in favor of a policy of unilateral nuclear disarmament, including the shutdown of all American nuclear bases on British soil or in British waters.  Although a resolution to that effect fell narrowly short of passage by a two-thirds margin, and thus failed to become part of the party's formal program, the vote was an indication that such an action continues to dominate Labor thinking despite the comeback staged by the right wing at this week's annual party conference.  In the event of a Labor victory in the general election expected in 1983, a broad disarmam ent program now appears to be a distinct possibility. Michael Foot, the party leader, who would become Prime Minister if Labor won, is a longtime supporte r of unilateral disarmament and restated his conviction in ri nging terms here yesterday.  The Labor decision came at a time of mounting resistance to nuclear weapons in a number of other countries of Western Europe, including Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands and West Germany. U.S. Role Questioned  As in other European countries, opposition to nuclear weapons in Britain stems in part from the view that the United States wants this continent to take all the risks. Alex Kitson, the party chairman, said in a speech to the conference on Sunday, ''When they talk of a limited nucle ar war, they mean limited to us.''  In addition, many members of the Labor Party fear that a nuclear conflict could be started in Europe through a miscalculation or a technical malfunction 3,000 miles away. A delegate from southwestern England, who lives near two military bases, said she could not bear to tell her children that ''a nuclear attack is likely to be only a few miles away.'' The only sane course, she added, was for a future Labor government ''to tell President Reagan to pack up his bases and leave our shores.''  What the party's activists are demanding is that the Conservative Government's plan to acquire Trident missiles to replace the aging Polaris missiles be canceled, that American cruise missiles be banned, that military spending be cut sharply and that this country work for the creation of a European nuclear-free zone - all regardless of what other nations do.  However, the conference rejected a second resolution calling for the withdrawal of Britain from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, after first seeming to approve that as well. On a show of hands, the measure passed, but on a ''card vote,'' in which the big trade unions were able to make their weight felt, it was defeated easily, 5.2 million votes to 1.6 million. 'This Is Mass Suicide'  Advocates of withdrawal from NATO said it made no sense to ban nuclear weapons and remain within the Atlantic alliance. One, Stephen Ratcliffe, a delegate from the Midlands, said NATO's policy was to use conventional weapons until it was losing, then to try tactical nuclear weapons ''and then to blow up the world.''  ''This is mass suicide,'' he told the 1,300 delegates. ''We must get out of the game before it kills all of us.'' Joan Lestor, speaking against withdrawal for the party's National Executive Committee, said it was perfectly consistent for a partly disarmed Britain to remain in NATO. She argued that this country could play a role like those of Canada, Norway and Denmark, all members of the alliance that have forbidden the deployment of nuclear weapons on their soil.  It was a rowdy and confusing day of voting in the Brighton Conference Center. The chairman, Mr. Kitson, failed to call on Brynmor John, the party's parliamentary spokesman on defense, to state the case for multilateral disarmament, and Mr. John stalked out of the hall without waiting for Miss Lestor's summing up. Later he and Mr. Kitson exchanged recriminations on television.  Illustrations: Photo of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 
