19810610
''I AM a part of all that I have met,'' said August Darnell, quoting Tennyson. Mr. Darnell was born in Montreal, grew up in the Bronx, studied English literature at Hofstra University, was a founding member of Dr. Buzzard's Original Savannah Band and, more recently, has been performing widely, under the alias Kid Creole. And Kid Creole he is. He grew up in neighborhoods where both English and Spanish were spoken and where he was bombarded by all sorts of popular music. Now he is making music that is as much a cultural goulash as New York City, where his band Kid Creole and the Coconuts is a popular club attraction.  Mr. Darnell's songs and arrangements mix disco and funk, Latin and reggae, calypso and cha cha, rock and Broadway, and his new album, ''Fresh Fruit in Foreign Places'' (Ze/Sire), is the freshest and most intelligent fusion of pop styles and dance rhythms in a long time. It is an extraordinary album, but then, how many musicians quote Tennyson one minute and break into South Bronx street slang the next? Mr. Darnell is an extraordinary singer, songwriter, arranger and allround musical catalyst. ''To me, the beauty of music is its possibilities for mutation,'' he added. ''And that mutation represents a larger ideal: global coexistence.''  When Dr. Buzzard's Original Savannah Band burst upon an unwary public in 1976 with ''Cherchez La Femme,'' the hit single from the group's first album, critics didn't know what to call the music. The band members called it ''mulatto music,'' and Mr. Darnell, who wrote the lyrics for the Savannah Band's songs, is mining a similar vein as Kid Creole. But while the Savannah Band splintered (after recording second and third albums that were too sophisticated and quirky for the disco fans who had made ''Cherchez La Femme'' a hit) and only recently regrouped for occasional New York club engagements, Mr. Darnell has been proceeding full steam with his pet project, Kid Creole and the Coconuts. An Epic Travelogue  His partner in the venture is Andy Hernandez, who was the Savannah Band's vibraphonist and is both an irrepressible onstage clown and an increasingly individual singer, songwriter and arranger. Some of Kid Creole and the Coconuts' songs are by Mr. Hernandez, but most are by Mr. Darnell. And it was Mr. Darnell's idea to make ''Fresh Fruit in Foreign Places'' a kind of epic travelogue, a collection of songs connected by a narrative reminiscent of the stories of Odysseus, Jason and the Argonauts and other mythical adventurers.  Mr. Darnell has cast himself perfectly as the album's lead vocalist and central character, Kid Creole. In his Savannah Band days he sported fancy 40's suits and artfully tousled hair and projected a kind of aloof elegance. At the age of 30, he is as strikingly handsome as ever but dresses a little more conservatively. As he talked about the new Kid Creole album this week, in a small rehearsal room that Ze/Sire Records maintains for its artists, he looked more like a world-weary adventurer who has given all for love, as Kid Creole does in the course of ''Fresh Fruit in Foreign Places,'' than like the slightly foppish rake he used to impersonate.  ''One way of looking at the journey Kid Creole undertakes on the record,'' Mr. Darnell said, ''is as a justification of the many strains that coexist in our music. The journey is autobiographical in that it explains how the music came to be the music that it is. Kid Creole and his crew visit various islands and are influenced by the music and culture of each one. I didn't have to travel; growing up in New York, I heard calypso, Motown, James Brown, rock, Latin music, and so on, and although I didn't use some of those influences for many years, I was nurturing them subconsciously. You don't just leave your influences behind when you move on in life; you take them with you.''  But the album is also autobiographical in another, more personal sense. ''Three or four years ago, I was seeing this Haitian girl named Mimi,'' Mr. Darnell explained. ''I returned home one day to find she had gone. I began searching for her. Of course I didn't search for her around the world, but I did travel around Manhattan and even down to Haiti. I figured I would expand on that experience and make it an epic journey, like the Greek myths I was fascinated by as a kid.'' Captured by Amazons  The album's concept is also a convenient smoke screen for some telling satire. In one episode, Kid Creole and his crew are captured by Amazons who intend to mate with them and then eliminate them. ''I don't believe in propagation,'' Kid Creole asserts, ''just to achieve cafe au laition.'' Making their escape, Kid Creole and the Coconuts visit another island, where a revolution is in progress - a musical revolution involving factions with warring tastes. One faction sings ''Latin Music,'' an apparent put-down of salsa. In the next song, Latin Music's proponents complain that they can't get the hang of ''Musica Americana,'' singing in Spanish to authentic salsa rhythms provided by members of the group Libre. Finally, a song by Andy Hernandez asserts that ''music belongs to the people,'' complaining to radio programmers that ''like the Ayatollah, man, you've gotten out of hand / Trying to take control / But I refuse to sell my soul.'' 'We'll Get Acceptance'  Mr. Hernandez, who grew up on 122d Street in East Harlem and holds a degree in business administration from Nnew York University, said Kid Creole's music had not been widely accepted on the radio. It is too black and/ or Latin for white rock stations, but does not fit into the formats of most black pop and disco stations, either. ''We're trying to get past the categorization of music,'' he said, ''and it's tough. But little by little we'll get acceptance. When we play for the people, there's never any problem.'' How could there be, with Mr. Hernandez dancing, spinning, doing push-ups and turning somersaults like a man gone berserk while the Coconuts - three blond, scantily clad young women - execute intricate and often wacky choreography to the band's kinetic rhythms?  At a Manhattan rehearsal studio recently, Kid Creole's new music sounded harder, closer to rock and much more viscerally compelling than it does on the album, which is more elaborately orchestrated. The songs from the album are being performed as one continuous program, with a narrative set to contemporary rap rhythms connecting them. During the next few months, Kid Creole and the Coconuts will be presenting this show, which Mr. Darnell called ''the first rap musical,'' on the West and East Coasts (including several nights at New York's Savoy) and in Britain. Unlike the first Kid Creole album, ''Fresh Fruit in Foreign Places'' is being distributed by Warner Brothers, which may help it penetrate parts of America where Mr. Darnell's Creole music has not yet been heard. The show will also include ''Me No Pop I,'' a recent single by Mr. Hernandez (recording as Coatimundi) that has garnered considerable dance-club air play and press attention here and in England.  ''Remember,'' Mr. Darnell concluded, ''what we're selling is not just music, but coexistence. That ideal is represented in our melting pot of musical streams, but our show also represents it visually. I think in the future, most music will be mutant forms, cultural fusions. And sooner or later, Kid Creole and the Coconuts will reach a larger number of people, whether it's through radio or through personal appearances. We're in this for the long haul; my basic belief has always been that the race is not to the swift.''  Illustrations: photo of Kid Creole and Andy Hernandez 
