20031013
 Medicare Accord Takes Form; Shape of Compromise on Prescription-Drug Coverage Is Emerging   By Lueck, Sarah, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 14, 2003  Still, there is a growing sense of what a compromise might look like and what each side might have to give up to reach agreement. Negotiating such a deal won't be easy, especially in a deteriorating political climate characterized by partisan disputes over the federal budget deficit and foreign policy. "It's going to be tougher today to convince people to support a solid bipartisan bill . . . because of the increased tension," says Sen. Edward Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat who helped shepherd the Senate bill through the chamber. "I set the bar high. The other side set the bar high. It's too early to predict the outcome."  The House's drug benefit front-loads its help by requiring beneficiaries to pay 20% of their medicine costs between $250 and $2,000, with Medicare paying the other 80%. The Senate would require beneficiaries to pay 50% of their drug costs at this point, but would cover higher outlays, between $275 and $4,500 of spending. A compromise floated by some Capitol Hill aides: Change the percentages, so Medicare would pay 75% or 60% of drugs costs, and the beneficiary would pay 25% or 40%.  Compromising Positions These four lawmakers will play major roles in determining whether Congressmakes substantial progress on House-Senate Medicare negotiations in thecoming weeks: Rep. Bill Thomas (R., Calif.) and Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.) -- Thomas, the House Ways and Means Committee chairman and longtimeadvocate of updating Medicare, is heading the negotiations and will play akey role in selling any compromise to conservative House Republicans. Kennedyisn't on the negotiating committee, but his support will be crucial togetting liberal Senate Democrats on board. Sen. Charles Grassley (R., Iowa) and Sen. Max Baucus (D., Mont.) -- Grassley, the Finance Committee chairman, and Baucus, the panel'sranking Democrat, are committed to a final package that closely resembles theSenate bill they crafted. Baucus may get his wish to expand help for low-income beneficiaries. Grassley's desire to boost payments to rural providerscould spark tension with Thomas and House Republicans. (END)   
