20011113
 War in Afghanistan: How to Win Pakistan for the West   By By Husain Haqqani, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 14, 2001  During his first meeting with President Bush on the sidelines of the U.N., Gen. [Musharraf] asked for concrete "gestures" of appreciation for Pakistan's support, including the release of 28 F-16 fighters bought by Pakistan in the 1980s but held up by U.S. sanctions imposed in 1990. He also sought revival of global interest in Pakistan's dispute with India over the Himalayan territory of Jammu and Kashmir. But if U.S. gestures to Pakistan are limited to aiding Gen. Musharraf and his military, this crucial Muslim country will not be able to break out of its current mold of violence and ignorance.  Pakistan and the U.S. have previously had problems in understanding each other's expectations for the relationship. At this point, if the U.S. misreads Pakistan's expectations, or if Pakistan starts expecting what it has not been promised, the two countries will again drift apart. This time the drifting could open the door to even more severe consequences than the previous disengagement, which led to the empowerment of Islamic militant groups in Pakistan and Afghanistan. What happens if the disaffected masses decide that the current leadership is too soft or too pro-West and must be overthrown?  Pakistan's stability is clearly a key U.S. concern. But the instrument Washington has chosen to ensure that stability -- the Pakistani military -- has fixed views about the country's place in the world. It also has preconceived ideas about its own role in the affairs of Pakistan. Islamabad's military establishment ignored American warnings about Pakistan's policy direction in the past. This time, President Bush should make it clear to Gen. Musharraf that U.S.-Pakistan ties ought to be based on a shared commitment to democracy, freedom and elimination of intolerant beliefs that lead to terrorism. If Islamabad looks towards Washington only as a source of weapons and cash, the possibility of more conflicts in the future cannot be ruled out.   
