19810108
Recently Sonny Werblin pointed to a table at Madison Square Garden and said, ''This is where I made the Bob McAdoo trade.'' Werblin, president of Madison Square Garden Corporation, which owns the Knicks, was referring to the February 1979 deal that sent McAdoo to the Boston Celtics for three first-round draft choices.  The trade helped to create this season's slogan, ''The NEW New York Knicks - A Year Better.'' And it signified the end of a stretch during which the policy was to acquire name players to help fill empty Garden seats. Five weeks earlier the Knicks had traded Spencer Haywood, the other of their big-money acquisitions who failed to fit in.  With McAdoo and Haywood gone, the team was committed to build through the college draft. That policy began with the acquisition of Bill Cartwright, Larry Demic and Sly Williams, all by draft choices acquired in the McAdoo trade. Of the 11-man roster, only Marvin Webster, Campy Russell and Mike Glenn are not draft choices; Webster and Glenn were signed as free agents and Russell was picked up in a trade.  When the Knicks finished the 1977-78 season with a 31-51 record, only half the 12 players were draft choices. The following season, when 16 players wore a Knick uniform, only seven were draft choices.  Now the Knicks are a year better, and the players acquired through the drafts are the keys. At the season's halfway mark, the Knicks are 26-15, the sixth best record in the National Basketball Association and their best since the 1973-74 season, when they finished at 49-33. They did not gain their 26th victory last season until the 54th game.  The figures do not show that the Knicks have overpowered many opponents with individual exploits, rather than teamwork. At times, some observers say, Ray Williams and Michael Ray Richardson forget their teammates, especially Cartwright, the 7-foot center, who is an excellent scorer.  The full meaning of team play, plus consistency and concentration - all trademarks of a championship team -are things the Knicks may still be learning, some say. Also, they still lack the strong, physical, frontcourt player who can score and rebound, and they need more consistency from the bench.  The good and bad points of the first half of the season were put into focus by the way the Knicks played their first 14 games and then the next 27.  While starting with an 11-3 record, which included victories over the Philadelphia 76ers, Boston Celtics and Milwaukee Bucks, they displayed the helping offense and defense that Coach Red Holzman was noted for when he coached them to championships in 1970 and 1973.  Referring to those teams, Holzman said: ''We really should start thinking of these guys in their own right. This team I've got now has more talent than the championship teams, but thinking-wise and defensively, the old teams were better. The guys I got now are more physical, Collectively, my championship teams were smarter, but they couldn't do all the things these guys can do.''  The Knicks' 113-108 loss to the San Antonio Spurs Tuesday night pointed up a problem they had in the 15-12 run that followed the 11-3 start.  When Ray Williams got into early foul trouble after having paved the way to a 15-point lead, no one took up the slack. The Knicks eventually lost the lead and the game.  Still, in comparing these Knicks with the team that finished last season at 38-44, Webster said: ''We have more poise and we're getting more breaks. The poise has given us quite a few victories. Last season, in the closing minutes of a game, we would lose because we would make a mistake or force up a shot. Now, we're getting off the good shots at the end, and that has got a couple of wins.'' 
