20050306
 It's Universal -- Museums Can't Stop Expanding   By Gibson, Eric, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 7, 2005  Today is D-Day for the Cleveland Museum of Art. The board is to vote on whether to go ahead with a $225 million, Rafael Vinoly-designed expansion and renovation that would unify the museum's four existing buildings into one, increase the museum's overall size by over 50% and its gallery space by about 33%. The decision has been getting a lot of attention in the local media owing to the museum's consultative approach taken in its dealings with the community.  Now there's an additional impulse driving expansion: the so-called Bilbao effect. Ever since the 1997 opening of the Guggenheim's Frank Gehry-designed branch in Bilbao, Spain, museums have been looking to flashy architecture for its power to "brand" an institution and so jumpstart its economic fortunes as well as those of the community it serves. The Milwaukee Art Museum's board had that in mind when in 1994 it selected Santiago Calatrava to design its expansion. The strategy works. The Corcoran's selection of Frank Gehry for its addition in 1999 got its director, David Levy, invited on "The Charlie Rose Show" the night of the announcement.  The apparent success of many of these ventures -- three months after its post-expansion reopening, MoMA is full to bursting, with long lines to get in -- belies the fact that expansion can sometimes be hazardous to institutional health. The Milwaukee Art Museum nearly went bankrupt after the price tag on its Calatrava building ballooned from $20 million to $125 million. Seattle's Bellevue Art Museum did, closing nearly three years after it had opened a new, $23 million building in 2001. One of the Guggenheim's two Las Vegas branches suffered a similar fate. Attendance at most museums hasn't been near what it was at the height of the boom, hence the mayor of Tampa's demand late last year that the trustees of its new art museum, which the city is partially underwriting, certify that it will stay in the black even if visitorship falls way below projections.   
