20021020
 Defense Dilemma: Ugly Side Effects Of Smallpox Vaccine Color Terror Plans --- White House Considers Fund For Vaccination Victims; Limitations on Lawsuits --- Photos of Disfigured Children   By By Marilyn Chase and Greg Hitt, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 21, 2002  Last year's anthrax attacks exposed weaknesses in U.S. defenses against bioterrorism attacks and raised alarms that smallpox -- the once-deadly disease believed to have been eradicated world-wide since 1980 -- could be used as a weapon. U.S. officials fear that Iraq, which has attempted to stockpile chemical and biological arms, may have obtained samples of the highly contagious virus. With the possibility of military conflict looming, they worry that Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein might use smallpox against U.S. troops or even against civilians on U.S. soil.  Little about the smallpox vaccine has changed since it was developed in the 18th century. It contains a live pox virus called vaccinia, which is harvested from infected calf skin. The vaccine is particularly dangerous because unlike most live vaccines, it uses virus that hasn't been weakened. In most people, vaccinia causes a mild infection that triggers lasting immunity. But in some people, the virus runs amok, and several hundred people would be expected to die if a mass vaccination took place. Even people with minor reactions to the vaccine can spread the vaccinia virus to others. Such risks were deemed acceptable when smallpox was active and killing 30% of those it infected.  Accelerating the urgency of the public-health debate is the imminent availability of enough vaccine to more than cover the entire U.S. population of about 280 million people. One year ago, only 15 million doses of Wyeth's Dryvax were on hand. Now, tests show that it's possible to dilute those doses fivefold. Dr. [Anthony S. Fauci] predicts success in stretching to over 300 million doses a batch of 75 million doses found in a freezer at Aventis Pasteur of Swiftwater, Pa., the vaccine unit of Aventis SA of Strasbourg, France. Augmenting those doses, made by the calf-extraction method, federal contractors Acambis PLC of London and Baxter International Inc. are readying more than 200 million doses made by cell-culture methods.   
