20051111
 Globetrotting: Spain on Five Meals a Day; Forget Paris -- San Sebastian is the most food-obsessed city in Europe   By Sesser, Stan, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 12, 2005  As globalization changes the world's restaurant scene -- you can now not only eat Thai food all over California, but California cuisine in Bangkok -- San Sebastian is unusual for another reason. The city stands virtually alone as a place that focuses on a single cuisine. Basque food originated here and is being modernized here without regard to what's going on elsewhere. The hottest new chef, 37-year-old Gorka Arzelus of Agorregi, has never been to Paris, nor has he eaten at El Bulli, the wildly experimental Michelin three-star restaurant near Barcelona that is the most talked-about restaurant in Spain. He considers his 18 years in the kitchens of several of San Sebastian's best restaurants to be all the exposure he needs.  If you're not a Spanish-speaker, here's how to navigate the tapas bars without having to utter a word. Use your hand as a plate, because they don't hand out real plates. When the time comes to pay your bill, hold up the number of fingers for the dishes you've consumed, since they're all priced about the same and the gregarious bartenders aren't ones to haggle over a few cents. What to eat is the problem most easily solved: Eat everything, since all the tapas range from good to delicious.  After a couple of hours of eating and drinking, it's time for a serious meal in a sit-down restaurant. But serious doesn't mean stuffy. Take Arzak, named after the founding chef, Juan Mari Arzak, and indisputably one of the best restaurants anywhere. It differs in two significant ways from the Michelin three-stars in France. First, it's delightfully informal -- elderly Basque farmers, who have saved up for the occasion, can be seen eating at Arzak wearing their rough wool sweaters. Second, the lavish fixed-price dinner option is $125 per person, about one-third the price of a similar meal at a three- star in France. "This restaurant was our family home," Mr. Arzak says. "I was born here, and I want my people to come."   
