19810630
EAST FARMINGDALE JOSEPH LIZARDI is a paradox. His plays are up to the minute in their concerns, but a throwback in structure and style. His voice is distinct, yet derivative. The passion and gusto of a talented writer are unmistakably there, but so are the echoes of other playwrights. These encompass Rice, Odets, Miller - even Ibsen - in Mr. Lizardi's current work alone, ''Blue Collars,'' a play about the exploitation of the working class, the possibility of a wildcat strike, the election of a shop steward and tons of other things.  The Arena Players Theater's investment in Mr. Lizardi, its resident playwright, continues to pay off in terms of exposure for him and enjoyment for the audience. There is a sense of sheer life in his writing.  With his third play in half a year, and with a fourth possibility before season's end, it is time to wonder how a talent thrice exposed is being nurtured. Is Mr. Lizardi writing too much too quickly? How much should he be allowed to cram into one play? Arena Players has become a showcase for a variety of Lizardi plays, but what about the process of developing a particular one?  By now, we have seen a couple of two-character comic sketches (''The Powderroom''), a slice of tenement life, symbolic neoabsurdist comedy set in the decaying South Bronx -where Mr. Lizardi was raised (''El Macho''), and a slice of factory life - a soda bottling plant in the South Bronx, where in real life the afterhours playwright sunlights (''Blue Collars''), playing through next Sunday.  For all its relevance and universal, not just local, color - Mr. Lizardi clearly writes (and writes clearly) about people and situations he knows -''Blue Collars'' could have been written in the 30's. It is an outgrowth of agitprop theater. Instead of refining a form by perfecting the craft, the playwright seems merely to have mimeographed messages. He has not given us an original, but a stencil.  To an extent, he is showing us a new slant on union ''goons'' working in cahoots with management. This remains an unexplored irony, a secondary theme worthy of primary consideration.  Unexplored too are relationships, sketched like those vignettes that seem to have become Mr. Lizardi's stock in trade, as opposed to more fully fleshed characters.  Here, for example, we have Old Helen, a forlorn office manager, telling a worker about her past love affair with his dying father. In Mimi Sobell's affectingly downtrodden performance, the woman comes to momentary life, but the moment comes out of nowhere - just another of those ''cameo'' scenes Mr. Lizardi contrives so expertly.  Then there is the opening scene, which goes nowhere. Phil, played to physical perfection by Joe McCabe, is the terminal macho man and gung-ho bigot, who longs to return to ''the days of Joe McCarthy when we had national pride.'' He complains to a long-suffering wife about the indolence of their son, a 27-year-old veteran of the Vietnam War (after all, it only took Phil two days to get over Korea!), but that's that, until a phone call near the end informs Phil that the young man is a drug addict.  As a playwright with a device, Mr. Lizardi has made his share of overcalls in the past, but this one rings false enough to disconnect his service. And a couple of final melodramatic gunshots really draw a blank.  ''Blue Collars'' has a sizable cast -15, by actual count - and the director, Frederic De Feis, has marshalled them with the exactness of a master commander. Several get to serve their time in the spotlight to fine effect.  Michael Dacunto is excellent in the John Garfield part of the idealistic organizer who insists on acting upon his own dreams instead of those that are being inflicted upon him. Tony Ray shines as Sugar, a spaced-out but ultimately militant spokesman against a ''white man's factory.''  And Adam Di Petto is a funny pint-sized plant clown, an X-rated leprechaun gleefully prancing about, enunicating each expletive as if it were the Last Word.  We get a vivid sense of the time-card-punching zombies to which a ''system'' has relegated these workers - plus the implication that this could be a school or any bureaucratic institution where ''clocking in'' can represent the triumph of the day and the ultimate measurement of accomplishment. Besides, this particular plant is named ''American Soda'' - how's that for a metaphor?  Still, ''Blue Collars'' is typed rather than peopled. There are the foremen, Duke, a bully (hiss); Little Polack, the lovable clown; Larry, the occupational victim, and so on. In some cases, the types are stretched to make a point: There is a religious fanatic, kissing his plain piece of wheat bread and sprouting prayers, who Mr. Lizardi indicates (often writing by indication as he does) ''is probably the only sane one here,'' but actually he seems to have wandered in from some other play.  Joseph Lizardi is writing about the dignity of man as it is messed up by the politics of labor, of management, of unions - and by the cowardice and ineptitude of man himself. The theme is timeless. The play is dated and unwieldy, but it should give you pause before buying another bottle of soda.  Illustrations: photo of Tony Ray, Joe McCabe, and Bill Marinelli 
