20070115
 The Afternoon Report: Dialing Down East   By Annett, Tim, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 16, 2007  The telecommunications behemoth said it would spin off its local- exchange unit in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, and then merge the business with FairPoint Communications, in a transaction valued at about $2.72 billion. Along with the responsibility for patching up snow-lashed lines in northern New England, Verizon will bid adieu to about $1.7 billion in debt, as well as some 3,000 employees, who will land on the rolls of North Carolina-based FairPoint. The deal will significantly expand the reach of little-known FairPoint. The company now serves more than 300,000 access lines in rural markets across 18 states, but adding Verizon's business will give it an additional 1.5 million lines. Verizon shareholders will receive $1 billion of FairPoint common stock in the merger, and will hold 60% of the new company. The companies anticipate the transaction, which has been structured to be tax-free, will close within a year.  Faced with such an enormous rewiring project, unloading far-flung assets has obvious advantages for New York-based Verizon. Credit Suisse analyst Christopher M. Larsen wrote that the New England business had been on the block for some time, is somewhat short on growth potential, and, thus, it was unlikely that Verizon would have gone to the trouble of carrying out its upgrade in the region in any case. Bear Stearns analyst Mike McCormack chimed in to say that Verizon was getting a pretty nice deal, selling off a noncore business for roughly $1,800 a line, which he called a relatively attractive price tag. But all the same, analyst Peter Rhamey of BMO Nesbitt Burns wrote that the deal is at the end of the day pretty small beer for Verizon investors, and that the company's long campaign to sell such assets "highlights the challenges of spinning off rural lines under attractive terms." Verizon stock was pared a bit by Wall Street, but FairPoint shares shot up over 11% in morning trade on the New York Stock Exchange.  An independent panel set up to review BP's refinery operations in the U.S. said it found "significant" problems at five refineries and that company goals, such as cost-cutting, often overrode safety concerns at its plants. The report, which was commissioned after a deadly March 2005 blast at BP's Texas City refinery, said that the oil giant aspires to be a safe company but that it has done a poor job of realizing its aspirations. The panel, headed by former Secretary of State James Baker, made clear that it believes BP isn't alone in its struggles. "We are under no illusion that the deficiencies we have identified are unique to BP," Mr. Baker said in a statement. "If other refining and chemical companies consider our recommendations and apply them, we believe that those workplaces will be safer and that future tragedies like the Texas City accident can be avoided." BP, whose longtime chief executive is stepping down this year, said it will implement the panel's findings.   
