19811116
BONN, Nov. 15— Thousands of people opposing construction of a third runway at Frankfurt International Airport disrupted automobile traffic near the airport today and forced airport officials to partially close the airport, which is Europe's second-largest.  But airport officials said no flights had been canceled or delayed, despite the widespread disruptions and strict police controls. The demonstrators, from environmentalists and groups against nuclear arms, oppose the planned two-and-a-half mile runway on the grounds that it will destroy extensive forests and that it will serve to increase the military potential of the airport, which is used by United States Air Force units assigned to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  In a separate development, leaders of environmentalist groups met today in Mainz, about 20 miles west of Frankfurt, and announced they would begin next fall organizing nonviolent demonstrations to disrupt NATO maneuvers. Brezhnev to Face Protest  A spokesman for the 200 delegates at the meeting of 1,050 environmentalist groups from all over West Germany said the organizations, which plan a demonstration in Bonn next Sunday to protest the presence of Soviet nuclear weapons in Europe during the visit to West Germany of Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet leader, are opposed both to the danger of increased armaments in Europe and to the extensive damage caused to the environment by the annual NATO maneuvers in West Germany.  A spokesman for the Frankfurt police said today that demonstrators blocked highways approaching the airport, and the threat of disruptions at the airport itself led oficials to close part of the sprawling departure building. The spokesman said police tow trucks removed demonstrators' cars that were parked on highways and on a key traffic circle near the airport.  The spokesman said that at the same time a group of about 1,000 youths who bombarded police near the construction site with sticks rocks and at least one gasoline bomb were driven off with water cannons.  Train service from downtown Frankfurt to the airport was maintained, the spokesman said, but airport officials were allowing only passengers with tickets access to the airport buildings. Petition to State Government  Yesterday, an estimated 100,000 demonstrators marched in Wiesbaden, the capital of Hesse state, where Frankfurt lies, to present the state government with a petition with 220,745 names, more than 40,000 more than necessary, to seek a referendum on whether the runway should be built.  Organizers of the demonstration said the new runway would destroy thousands of acres of forests near Frankfurt. And Doris Barthel, a spokesman for a group opposing construction, said the new runway would enhance Frankfurt Airport's military potential, making the area a ''target of the atomic threat.''  The Hesse state Government, which said it would reject the petition, argues that Frankfurt needs the runway to meet growing traffic volume in the 1980's to insure the area's continued economic growth. The issue must now be decided by the Hesse state courts. 
