19811231
Mayor Koch suggested yesterday that the state courts create special trial sections to deal exclusively with serious crimes committed on the city's subway and bus lines.  Mr. Koch stopped short of formally proposing such special ''parts,'' as they are called. First, he said, he wanted to see reports from advisers who, a few weeks ago, began a program of ''tracking'' robberies and attempted robberies in the mass-transit system to see what happens to defendants as they make their way through the courts.  The Mayor did not specifically criticize judges for being too lenient, a charge he has made in the past on other criminal matters. Nevertheless, at a City Hall news conference and in a subsequent interview, he seemed to imply that some judges might be too easy with subway criminals.  ''Many of those people are repeaters, and many of those people who have been arrested are not punished,'' he said. His comments were made as transit officials disclosed a sharp rise this month in violent crime on the subways. Preliminary statistics showed reported felonies up by more than 60 percent above December 1980 figures. Reason for Increase Is Unclear  It was not clear why there had been such an increase. One possibility, according to Edward Silberfarb, a spokesman for the Transit Authority Police, was that the 950 incidents reported last December were fewer than normal.  Mr. Silberfarb also said that crime statistics sometimes fluctuated wildly and that the 60 percent increase - if it proves to be correct - is not the greatest monthly surge ever reported.  However, he acknowedged it was far greater than the 7.5 percent rise recorded in the first 10 months of 1981 compared with the same period last year. Statistics for November and December were still incomplete, he said.  The log of felonies - murders, assaults, robberies, larcenies and rapes -is compiled by the transit police and includes reports from other sources, such as the Police Department. Another possible reason for the December leap, Mr. Silberfarb said, is more thorough reporting techniques.  A poll of New Yorkers taken this month by The New York Times showed that transit crime was a dominant concern. Violence Causes Ridership Decline  Of the 1,146 people interviewed, 45 percent said they were using the subways less often than two years ago, and violence was the reason offered most frequently. In that group, 34 percent cited crime, compared with only 8 percent who listed overcrowding, dirt or noise and 7 percent who talked about poor service.  In recent years, court administrators have been cool to Mr. Koch's suggestion of establishing special ''parts.'' Among its opponents is E. Leo Milonas, who will spend his last day today as deputy chief administrative judge in the city before joining the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court.  The Mayor contended that special sections would ''sensitize judges'' to the seriousness of certain crimes. But Judge Milonas said: ''Look at the prison population. They're not volunteering to go in there. The judges put them there.'' 
