19861103
 Double Duty: Egypt Army Provides Bridges, Roads, Goods -- And Much Stability --- It Keeps Islamic Fanaticism At Bay by Helping Fight Poverty With Aid of U.S. --- Severing of Soviet Arms Link   By By Gerald F. Seib, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 4, 1986  Amid all these problems, the army is a major force of continued stability and Egypt's most powerful institution. Egypt's army, unlike those of many Third World countries, doesn't exercise overt political control. Nevertheless, its influence reaches into almost every aspect of the nation's political and economic life, from the presidential palace, inhabited by a former general, Hosni Mubarak, to the defense ministry, headed by the man most mentioned as his successor, Field Marshal Abdel Halim Abu Ghazala, and from the generals and colonels who manage state-owned banks and companies to the soldiers who build bridges and lay telephone lines.  At first glance, the army (the term usually is used to include Egypt's land forces as well as the much smaller air force, navy and air-defense units) might seem an unlikely source of stability. The army isn't exactly a spit-and-polish outfit. Enlisted men tend to wear rumpled green fatigues with scuffed boots, and many at the farm here live in tents. When officers were showing off a $40 million American-made air-defense system at a base near Cairo recently, a mongrel dog ambled undeterred across the operations area. Today's army isn't the battle-hardened outfit that fought four wars with Israel in 25 years.  Political clouds hang over the army as well. The biggest one is the fear that Islamic fundamentalists opposed to Egypt's pro-Western government may gain a foothold in the army. It was fundamentalist soldiers who killed President Anwar Sadat at a military parade in 1981. Political analysts suspect that if fundamentalists want to take power in Egypt, they will try to lay the groundwork by infiltrating the army -- though army officers insist they have defused fundamentalism's appeal with a program to keep officers economically satisfied.   
