19810328
BOSTON, March 27— A 45-year-old Atlanta man picked up on a traffic violation here last night was arraigned today on Federal charges of hijacking a helicopter and using it in an unsuccessful attempt to pluck a convicted drug dealer from the roof of the Federal detention center in Manhattan on Jan. 25.  The suspect, Jasper A. Banks, was held in $250,000 bail, pending extradition to New York on charges of air piracy and attempted escape. He was taken into custody in the Roxbury section and turned over to Federal officials after a computer check turned up Federal warrants for his arrest.  Two women and a man had previously been arrested in the case, but the man was released last month and charges against him are expected to be dropped.  In the attempted escape, a man and a woman seized a sightseeing helicopter at gunpoint and forced its pilot to land on heavy wire mesh covering a recreation area atop the Metropolitan Correctional Center at 150 Park Row in lower Manhattan. The attempt failed when the hijackers were unable to cut through the steel mesh. Sealed Complaint to Be Opened  Patricia Hynes, a spokesman for John S. Martin Jr., the United States Attorney in Manhattan, said a sealed complaint detailing the allegations against Mr. Banks would be opened tomorrow before a United States magistrate in New York. Miss Hynes declined to say why the complaint was not unsealed today.  Mr. Banks was driving a 1981 Cadillac with Georgia license plates along a road where the Roxbury and Dorchester neighborhoods come together, when he attracted the attention of Patrolmen Frank Keleher and Miller Thomas.  ''He kind of looked at us and we kind of looked at him, and while he was looking at us he went through a red light and almost hit a car, so we pulled him over down the block,'' said Patrolman Keleher. ''He was very nervous and that got us very interested.''  A radio check with the National Crime Information Center system turned up two Federal warrants, Patrolman Keleher said. They arrested him for running a red light.  ''If he hadn't seen us, he'd have been fine,'' the policeman said. ''He knew who we were, but he didn't know if we knew who he was.'' Mr. Banks was being held today at the Concord State Correctional Facility in Concord, Mass. Federal Magistrate Joyce London Alexander scheduled a hearing for Wednesday on a government motion to have Mr. Banks transferred to New York for trial. The traffic charges were filed for later disposition.  According to Federal authorities in New York, the escape attempt was aimed at freeing Robert Wyler, 42, a convicted narcotics dealer and murderer. The three previously arrested in the case were Diane Becker, Mr. Wyler's 30-year-old fiancee; Bonna L. Quigley, and Thomas McCreary, an assistant to Legal Aid Society lawyers in the Bronx. 
