19810307
One of the best kept secrets about Irish whisky in this country is that it tastes good. Despite its reputation for being coarse and heavy, it is possibly the most delicate and gentle of all whiskies. It is lighter-tasting than bourbon and most American blended whiskies and subtler than Scotch.  More than half the Irish whisky consumed in this country is in Irish coffee, and a big share of that is downed on one day of the year, March 17, St. Patrick's Day.  Its essential character lacks public recognition because it suffers from a misperception. Irish was the biggest-selling imported whisky in this country at the turn of the century. Because of its prestige and popularity, producers of illegal whisky during the Prohibition era often gave their brews Irish names. This gave real Irish a bad reputation that it is still trying to live down. Meanwhile, Scotch established a major beachhead on this side of the Atlantic.  So devastating was the impact of Prohibition on Irish that by 1966 only five distilling companies remained in Ireland, and four of them merged that year: John Jameson & Son, John Power & Son, Tullamore Dew and the Cork Distillery Company. The fifth, the Old Bushmills Distillery Company, merged with the rest in 1974, and now all Irish whisky comes from one concern, the Irish Distillers Group.  Yet the group continues to turn out a variety of brands that have retained their individual identities and flavors, reflecting an acknowledgment by the group's management that public tastes vary. At the same time, all are produced from barley, and the grain's fresh taste is evident. Six Exported to the U.S.  Six are now exported to the United States and are priced to retail at $8 to $11 a liter (33.8 ounces). The two largest-selling here are John Jameson and Old Bushmills, both of which are slightly more flavorful than the others. Then there is Paddy, which is crisp and dry; Murphy's, which also is subtler than Jameson and Bushmills; Dunphy's, which is possibly the lightest, driest of all, and Power's, a subtle blend that is the most popular Irish in Ireland. Tullamore Dew, of medium flavor intensity, can also still be found, but exports were halted a year ago.  One other Irish has a big reputation abroad but has been unavailable here for years: Black Bush, a special version of Old Bushmills. It is full-bodied and rich compared with the other Irishes, yet not as intensely flavored as some Scotches.  Both Irish and Scotch are made from the same two basic ingredients - barley and water - but they are produced in slightly different ways that account for the differences in flavor. Perhaps most important, Irish is always distilled three times, while Scotch and virtually all other whiskies are distilled twice.  Distillation consists of the heating of fermented barley mash until it vaporizes, then condensing the vapor back into a liquid, the distillate. Repeating the process twice may account for the light taste of most Irish, for distillation tends to extract certain flavors and impurities.  Another difference is that Irish is distilled from a combination of malted barley and unmalted barley, whereas Scotch is distilled entirely from malted barley. (In malted barley, the grains are allowed to sprout before distillation.) A Difference in Flavor  A third difference is that the barley for Irish is dried in smokeless kilns, while the barley for Scotch is dried over peat fires, which are largely responsible for the smoky taste of Scotch whisky.  The producers of Irish say the lighter flavor of their whisky makes it more versatile because it can be used with more mixers. Devotees of Scotch, on the other hand, contend that its distinctive smoky taste gives it greater character. In fact, neither whisky is better. They are just different.  But apparently Irish whisky has a longer tradition. The world's oldest distilling license, dated 1608, is held by Old Bushmills in Northern Ireland, and distillation of whisky in Ireland has been traced back to the sixth century, when Irish missionaries are said to have brought the art back from the Mediterranean regions.  The word whisky is from the Celtic ''uisce beatha,'' for ''water of life,'' and the modern version is believed to have been popularized by the English. Scotch whisky, nevertheless, is produced in far greater quantities today and outsells Irish by a huge margin. 
