19810115
MEXICO CITY, Jan. 14— Salvadoran opposition spokesmen said here today that their forces had seized the initiative in an offensive to topple the country's civilian-military junta. But they reiterated a willingness to negotiate a political settlement of the conflict, including with the United States.  They spoke at a news conference called to announce the formation by Salvadoran Marxist guerrillas and their non-Marxist allies of a seven-member political and diplomatic commission, which aims to mobilize international public opinion against any further United States involvement in the Salvadoran conflict.  The spokesmen criticized Washington's decision to renew military assistance to the Salvadoran junta today and charged that the Guatemalan and Honduran armed forces were intervening in the war on the side of the Salvadoran army.  In contrast, they strongly denied reports that they were receiving arms shipments from Cuba and Nicaragua. Says Evidence Is Lacking  ''The junta has been unable to offer any evidence of Cuban or Nicaraguan participation,'' said Salvador Samayoa, a former Education Minister who joined the guerrillas last year. ''It just wants to justify U.S. intervention.''  Guillermo Manuel Ungo, a Social Democratic politician and former junta member, insisted that the opposition was open to a dialogue with Washington.  ''We want to see a political solution in accordance with the interests of the people of El Salvador,'' he said. ''We say this to the outgoing Carter Administration and to the incoming Reagan administration. And we believe that the pragmatism of U.S. politicians will lead them to change their views.''  The commission was received yesterday by the president of Mexico's ruling party, Gustavo Carbajal, and tomorrow is due to meet in Panama City with Panama's President, Aristides Royo. Members of the group also plan trips to several Latin American, Western European and Middle Eastern nations.  Mario Aguinada, a Communist Party spokesman, said that any foreign intervention in El Salvador would lead to greater bloodshed but to eventual defeat of ''the foreign forces.'' Offensive 'Gradually Escalating'  Mr. Aguinada said the present offensive involved the military actions of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, an alliance of five Marxist guerrilla groups, as well as a popular insurrection and nationwide strike organized by the Democratic Revolutionary Front, a political coalition of Marxist and non-Marxist opponents of the regime.  ''The offensive is gradually escalating,'' he declared. ''The strike will grow as the military offensive advances.'' Ana Guadalupe Martinez, the only guerrilla activist on the commission, said that the military balance was beginning to tip toward the revolutionary forces just five days after the offensive began. ''We've already seen serious divisions in the army,'' she said. ''We've seen desertions and low morale among the officers.''  She said that the guerrillas were in control of extensive territory in the northern province of Chalatenango and in the eastern provinces of La Union, Morazan, San Vicente and La Paz.  The commission, which is made up of representatives of the five rebel groups and of the Social Democratic and dissident Christian Democratic Parties, has also been assigned the role of forming a ''democratic revolutionary government.''  ''We are not going to have a government in exile,'' Mr. Ungo explained. ''Formation of a government will go in tandem with the diplomatic and military offensive, but it will be based in El Salvador.'' ---- U.S. Resumes Military Aid Special to the New York Times  SAN SALVADOR, Jan. 14 - The United States today announced a resumption of military aid to El Salvador, saying leftist guerrillas posed a military threat to the civilian-military junta. Salvadoran Government officials and United States diplomats here cited what they said was increased aid to the guerrillas from Nicaragua.  The State Department said that the decision to resume the $5 million military aid program was also based on progress made in El Salvador's investigation into the killings on Dec. 2 of three United States Roman Catholic nuns and a lay worker. The program was suspended Dec. 5 following reports that Salvadoran security forces might have been responsible for their deaths.  The United States Ambassador, Robert E. White, said here today, ''It is my personal conclusion that there has been a change in the amount and sophisticiation of weapons coming to the guerrillas, and I think they are coming from Nicaragua.'' He noted that large numbers of Soviet and Chinese-made weapons had been captured in recent days by Salvadoran forces.  The resumption of United States military aid frees what the State Department described as $5 million in ''nonlethal'' equipment, including trucks, two leased transport helicopters and a $400,000 military training program.  Meanwhile, Salvadoran officials said Salvadoran troops had blocked an attempt by 100 guerrillas to stage a seaborne attack in southeastern El Salvador by landing in five boats at El Cuco Beach near the Nicaraguan border. The troops reportedly surrounded the guerrillas who were headed for the provincial capital of San Miguel, drove them back to the beach and killed 50 of them.  Asked about the guerrilla approach by sea, Ambassador White said he had been told by Salvadoran officials that the boats had come from Nicaragua. 
