20050217
In his first state visit to this workaday financial capital, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia gave business leaders and investors on Wednesday a glimpse of the kind of cleaner, more dynamic economy he wants his sprawling nation to be.  Speaking to an auditorium full of executives, government officials and journalists, Mr. Yudhoyono laid out his strategy to achieve growth of at least 6.6 percent in his impoverished nation to create jobs and raise the lot of Indonesia's 215 million people.  When he took office four months ago, he said, he wanted change that would better people's lives. ''The first challenge is ensuring that Indonesia's present macroeconomic stability leads to real improvement of the living standards of average Indonesians,'' he said in a lecture organized by the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies here. He described his strategy as ''pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-poor.''  Driven by strong consumer spending, Indonesia's economy already appears to be moving in the right direction. Gross domestic product grew 6.7 percent in the fourth quarter compared with the 2003 period, the government said Wednesday, rounding out a year during which the economy expanded by 5.1 percent, the fastest pace since 2000.  Mr. Yudhoyono said his government would promote exports and investment, job creation and agricultural and rural development to try to reduce unemployment to 5.1 percent from 9.5 percent by 2009.  ''We want growth to be coupled with equity, and we want to ensure that prosperity to eradicate poverty,'' he said.  Economists say Indonesia's economy needs to grow by at least 6 percent a year to absorb new entrants to its job market. Where Indonesia has fallen short, however, is in attracting foreign investors, who have been discouraged by widespread corruption and red tape. In a breakfast meeting with investors, President Yudhoyono reportedly reiterated promises to clean up the country's government and streamline its bureaucracy.  Investors have already gained confidence from such assurances, as well as from Mr. Yudhoyono's more serious personal style. Gone, it seems, are the days of his predecessors, Abudurrahman Wahid and Megawati Sukarnoputri, when meetings were held barefoot or had to be scheduled around presidential naps. Mr. Yudhoyono, a former general with a doctorate in agronomics, lacks a parliamentary majority but enjoys the distinction of being the first Indonesian president directly elected by the people.  ''There's a more businesslike attitude, of 'Let's get things done,''' said Cheong Kum Hong, chief investment officer at Commerzbank Asset Management in Singapore. ''Instead of going 30 kilometers per hour, you're going 90 now.''  After falling more than one-third, to $10.28 billion, in 2004, approvals for foreign direct investment more than tripled in January, to $872.1 million, and economists say private domestic investment has also risen.  ''Now I think investments will take over from consumption,'' said Manu Bhaskaran, head of economic research at Centennial Group Holdings in Singapore. ''Indonesia is back on the map.''  To that end, Indonesia signed an investment guarantee agreement with Singapore Wednesday aimed at giving investors greater protection. The agreement ensures that investors from Singapore receive compensation in the event their investment is expropriated or nationalized and provides for investment disputes to be referred to the World Bank's center for resolution of such disputes in Washington.  The agreement also calls for investors to receive most-favored-nation status, meaning that they would be granted any favorable terms that either country might give to such a country.  Mr. Yudhoyono added that Indonesia and Singapore had agreed to discuss cooperating in tourism and air services as well as in fighting cross-border crime, corruption and terrorism.  Mr. Yudhoyono's visit here coincides with generally warming relations between his sprawling nation and wealthy Singapore, which one former Indonesian president once dismissed as a ''little red dot.'' Under former President Megawati, the countries bickered over trade data, with Indonesia accusing Singapore of condoning smuggling, a charge Singapore vehemently denied.  By contrast, Mr. Yudhoyono and Lee Hsien Loong, Singapore's prime minister, agreed this week to begin negotiating an extradition treaty and Mr. Yudhoyono spoke Wednesday of growing personal ties between the leaders.  Relations were aided by Singapore's rapid deployment of military forces to Indonesia after the devastating tsunami on Dec. 26. Political analysts in Jakarta have cited Singapore's contribution to humanitarian assistance in Aceh, Indonesia's worst-hit province, as having helped dispel a longstanding mistrust among Indonesians toward Singapore. The tsunami killed almost 120,000 people in Indonesia.  Photo: A construction site in Indonesia. The country's economy grew 5.1 percent in 2004, the fastest since 2000. (Photo by Crack Palinggi/Reuters)  
