19820617
T he busiest place in college sports these days is probably the office of Ron Fraser, the baseball coach at Miami. People are still besieging him with calls to congratulate his team on winning its first national championship, but more often to marvel at the fake pickoff play that trapped the fastest base-stealer in college baseball.  It was a moment of pantomime that made Fraser and his players folk heroes on national television. It was a moment that might rank with other storied moments in college sports: Roy Riegels's running the wrong way in the 1929 Rose Bowl, or Tommy Lewis's jumping off the Alabama bench to tackle a Rice runner in the 1954 Cotton Bowl.  Fraser even created a title for his play: ''The Grand Illusion.'' Miami hatched its illusion to solve a critical problem: How could you stop Wichita State, a team that had stolen more than 300 bases in 83 games? How, especially, could you stop Phil Stephenson, who had stolen 86 bases in 90 attempts? When he ran, Wichita usually won: 71 victories en route to the national championships at Omaha.  ''The day before the game,'' Fraser said, ''we were trying to figure out how to handle Wichita's speed. Dave Scott, one of our assistant coaches, said he had seen a fake pickoff play a couple of weeks earlier at the national junior-college tournament.  ''But to work, a lot of factors would have to be right. We didn't think the perfect situation would come up. But we got everybody together and rehearsed it.''  The next day, in the sixth inning, the moment came. Stephenson got to first and leaned off. The pitcher, Mike Kasprzak, took his stretch. Skip Berkman, the assistant coach who had organized the pantomime, flashed the signal from the dugout.  Kasprzak set the stage by throwing over to first a couple of times to see if Stephenson would dive back. Stephenson did. ''Everything was right,'' Fraser said. ''It was twilight, and the sun was shining from left field into the eyes of the runner and the coach at first. The runner was diving back. And the guy coaching first happened to be another player.''  Kasprzak threw one pitch to the batter, then executed the Grand Illusion. He slipped his rear foot off the mound to avoid any chance of a balk, then pretended to fire the ball to first. Stephenson went diving back into the bag. The first baseman went diving across Stephenson as though lunging for a wild throw. The second baseman began yelling, ''Ball, ball!''  In the dugout, the chorus took its cue. All the reserves rushed to the top step, looked down the right-field line and yelled, ''Ball, ball!'' Down the line, the bullpen catcher began shouting, ''Ball, ball!'' Even the first-base umpire turned and ran toward the bullpen.  In the confusion, Stephenson scrambled to his feet and raced for second. But the pitcher, meanwhile, had tossed the ball to the shortstop, who was waiting with it when Stephenson arrived.  Miami won the game, 4-3, then beat Wichita again last weekend for the championship. Then Ron Fraser's phone began ringing. ''It was great fun,'' he said. ''But you can get away with it only once.''  Illustrations: Cartoon 
