19810729
PLEASANTVILLE, N.Y., July 28— On the first play of the Giants' 30-play controlled scrimmage this morning at nearby Briarcliff High School, Billy Taylor tried to slice off right guard.  Ernie Hughes, the center, tried to block Bill Neill, the rookie nose tackle. Neill got under the block, pushed off Hughes and tackled Taylor for no gain.  Ray Perkins, the coach, and Bill Parcells, the new defensive coordinator, yelled their approval to Neill. Their week-old experiment of converting a rookie defensive end to the key line position in a 3-4 defense was working.  ''Neill was playing off blocks all through the scrimmage,'' Perkins said. ''He was using his hands well.'' ''He's doing fine,'' Parcells said. ''He's got everything he needs to play in this league.'' Too Many Faces  When camp started two weeks ago at Pace University here, Neill was just another candidate for defensive end, a position that already included Gary Jeter, George Martin, Curtis McGriff, Phil Tabor and Chris Linnin. The nose tackle would be Myron Lapka, George Small or Jim Burt.  But Lapka, who underwent surgery on his right knee last year, reinjured it falling off a truck, and no one is sure when he will be ready. Small hurt his right knee, underwent arthroscopic surgery and will be sidelined for two weeks more. That left only Burt, a rookie free agent, so the Giants moved Neill to the middle.  ''I wasn't surprised,'' Neill said. ''It's still basically playing the defensive line. You still have to control your man. My job in the middle is to clog and tackle. The worst thing is to be blown back and cut off the linebackers. Our defense is designed to keep the linebackers free to make the hit.'' Differences in Formations  The 4-3 defense, which most National Football League teams use, has two ends, two tackles and three linebackers. The 3-4 has one fewer tackle and one more linebacker. It requires a nose tackle (he lines up on the offensive center's nose, hence the name) who can stay low and not be moved out.  ''If you get too high,'' Neill said, ''they'll blow you out. You have a 270-pound center and a guard coming at you. The biggest part is leverage. You want to get your chin under his chin and jerk him up with your hands. It's not easy because everyone is strong in this league.''  In four years as a defensive lineman at the University of Pittsburgh, Neill made a career of getting to the quarterback. He is 22 years old, 6 feet 4 inches and 255 pounds, with sandy hair and blue eyes. He received a degree in electrical engineering in April with almost a 3.0 classroom average. He was married 16 months ago and expects to become a father in a month. The Giants chose him on the fifth round of the draft last April.  He made all-East teams, but he was overshadowed by such renowned teammates as Hugh Green and Randy McMillan. ''I was the quiet one on our team,'' Neill said. ''I was always very consistent. We used to have to fight to make tackles, what with Green and the other linebackers. If you weren't there right away, the ballcarrier was tackled already.''  ---- Perkins Praises a Rookie  Perkins said the brightest performance of the scrimmage came from Louis Jackson, a rookie running back from Cal Poly-San Luis Obispo who had been hampered by an injured hamstring muscle.  The scrimmage, dedicated almost completely to running plays, caused injuries among the linebackers. Ben Apuna suffered stretched ligaments in the left knee. Brad Van Pelt, Brian Kelley and Harry Carson, all starters, received minor bruises. Van Pelt, who was kicked in the right ankle, sat out the afternoon contact drill.  ---- Jeter Sent to Hospital  Jeter was sent to Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J., for two or three days of rest and physical therapy. Jeter had been suffering muscle spasms in the lower back since a weight-lifting accident.  ---- Two Placed on Injured List  Cliff Chatman a rookie running back, and Kervin Wyatt, a secondyear linebacker, were placed on the injured-reserve list, trimming the roster to 78 players. Chatman, a fourth-round draft choice, has a lower back problem. Wyatt underwent surgery Tuesday to repair a torn ligament in his left knee. 
