19811019
The Rangers appeared to breaking out of their early-season slump last night as they defeated the St. Louis Blues, 5-3, at Madison Square Garden.  After opening the season with three losses, they won their second game by returning to the style that helped them upset the Blues in the playoff quarterfinals last year. The style is traditional, straight up-and-down skating with the puck, rather than the swirling, criss-cross method Coach Herb Brooks has been teaching.  The game marked the return of Pat Hickey, the forward who was traded two years ago in the deal that brought Barry Beck to New York. Brooks created a new line for the occasion, putting Hickey at right wing with Mike Rogers at center and Don Maloney on left wing. Hickey played well and took two shots on goal, but did not score.  Eddie Johnstone got two goals, Maloney scored a short-handed one and the other Ranger goals were by Mark Pavelich and Ron Duguay. Steve Baker, in his first winning game of the season, blocked 16 shots. The St. Louis scorers were Perry Turnbull, Alain Vigneault and Brian Sutter. Power Play Improves  The Rangers' power play, which had been weak, showed improvement as they scored once in the four times they had a man advantage. Before last night, they had scored only twice in 20 chances.  ''He did a good job,'' Brooks said of Hickey. ''We were interested in him even before we lost Hedberg. Now we need him even more.'' Brooks referred to the loss of Anders Hedberg, who was not expected to play for the rest of the season, having undergone surgery on his left knee Saturday. Hickey, who scored 40 goals for the Rangers four seasons ago, was traded to the Colorado Rockies, then quickly dealt to the Toronto Maple Leafs.  The victory gave the Rangers a 2-4 record. They have played well in their last three games, defeating the Vancouver Canucks, 2-1, last Wednesday, and losing to the Islanders, 5-4, on Saturday. And it has been as much by intent as by coincidence that they have been playing better in reverting to traditional National Hockey League style.  Brooks acknowledged that, as did several players. But they all emphasized that the Brooks system had not been abandoned, even though it had been barely noticeable in the last three games. Loosening Up the Opposition  ''By design, we went back a little,'' Brooks said. ''Gradually, we'll loosen them up a bit more with the puck.'' He said he had no timetable for restoring the system with which the Rangers had won nine of 10 exhibition games, then lost three straight regular-season games.  Brooks has also abandoned his insistence on a power play in which forwards and defensemen are constantly in motion. For the last two games, the Rangers have scored two power-play goals by the tedious but traditional method of passing the puck around until a man gets open, or there is a sightline to the goal.  Of the Blues and Brooks and his system, Beck said: ''We know how to play St. Louis. Herb stressed throwing the puck in.'' Formerly, that practice was interdicted by Brooks, whose system required that the puck be skated or passed into the offensive zone. ''He changed the power play around, too,'' Beck said. ''He's a smart enough man to know when to make changes, and he's making them slowly.''  The Rangers never trailed in the game. They were tied, 2-2, after the first period; led by 4-3 after the second and clinched the victory in the last 13 seconds on Duguay's empty-net goal. Johnstone's first goal was made possible by his new linemate, Jere Gillis, who took the puck from the Blues' defense in the slot and pushed it toward the goal. Johnstone took it and his slap shot beat the rookie goalie Rick Heinz in the seventh minute of the first period.  Turnbull evened the score with a short shot three minutes later, after Baker had cleared a soft shot. Maloney regained the lead for New York while killing a penalty. He stole the puck at center ice from Mike Zuke, broke in alone on Heinz and beat him with a low shot. The Blues tied the score again after Beck had fallen in the St. Louis zone, giving Vigneault a breakaway, on which he beat Baker with a short shot.  Johnstone's second goal, in the fifth minute of the second period, gave the Rangers a lead they never lost. He beat Heinz with a flip of the puck after a pass from Maloney, who had taken the rebound of a shot from the point by Beck. Pavelich's second goal of the season made it 4-2, after he and Duguay had broken in on Heinz. The third period was scoreless until Duguay's goal.  Illustrations: Photo of Barry Beck 
