19971020
 An Intimate Portrait of Degas the Collector   By By Louis Begley, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 21, 1997  The public became aware of the collection for the first time when these vast holdings -- more than 5,000 individual items -- were auctioned off and dispersed at five successive sales that took place in Paris over a period that began in March 1918 and ended in July 1919. The exhibition at the Metropolitan offers the visitor the first opportunity since that time to view an extensive and remarkably beautiful survey of the greatest works (Edgar) Degas had amassed and, equally important, selections from Degas's own work -- including major masterpieces -- that he chose not to sell during his lifetime. (Indeed, seeing the collection for the first time in 1918, a Louvre curator concluded that "the most complete collector of Degas's work was Degas himself.")  War conditions notwithstanding -- during the early auctions, Paris was under German bombardment, communications between Europe and the U.S. were slow and difficult, and the French and English governments could ill afford to fund purchases by the Louvre and the National Gallery -- the news of the sale of the collection sent a thrill through the art world. The competition was fierce, and prices obtained for certain works were criticized as excessive in terms not much different from those to which we have become accustomed during the recent bull art markets. The Metropolitan Museum joined the fray and purchased its first works by Ingres (the lovely portraits of M and Mme Leblanc) and by Degas himself, 10 portraits and figure drawings of great beauty. However, the Metropolitan was not able to acquire a Degas painting, and did not have one until 1929, when its collection of French art was immeasurably enriched by Louisine Havemeyer's bequest.  The particularly intimate character of the paintings Degas bought intensifies the experience: With few exceptions -- the double Leblanc portraits by Ingres and the portraits of Louis-Auguste Schwitter by Delacroix and of Monsieur Armand Brun by Manet -- they are small. One expects that in works on paper, and indeed drawings, pastels and etchings stand out among the gems of Degas's collection. But Degas collected small El Grecos, a very small Delacroix ("Count de Mornay's Apartment"), which Degas valued especially, relatively small Gauguins and small Cezannes at a time when acquiring larger paintings by those artists was certainly within his means.   
