20011104
 What Enron's Financial Reports Did -- and Didn't -- Reveal --- Auditor Could Face Scrutiny on Clarity Of Financial Reports   By By Jonathan Weil, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 5, 2001  One thing is certain: The stakes for Andersen could be high. Since Enron's disclosure of the reduction in shareholder equity, its stock has plunged 67% to $11.30 as of 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday -- a drop that wipes $20 billion off the company's market value and potentially exposing Enron and Andersen to massive shareholder liability. Already, Enron's dealings with the partnerships are the subject of a formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. That creates the possibility that Andersen itself could become a focus of the probe at some point, should regulators find Enron's accounting and disclosure practices deficient. Meanwhile, the law firm for a special committee set up by Enron's board has hired accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP to help review the partnerships' activities.  How murky are the related-party disclosures in Enron's audited financial statements? Here is a summary of a section in Enron's 2000 year-end financial statements describing certain transactions with the [Andrew S. Fastow]-operated partnerships. The company said it transferred assets valued at $1.2 billion, including $150 million in notes payable, 3.7 million restricted Enron shares and the right to receive as many as 18 million Enron common shares in March 2003, subject to certain conditions. It also transferred to the partnerships other assets valued at $309 million, including a $50 million note payable and "an investment in an entity that indirectly holds warrants convertible into common stock of an Enron equity method investee."  "I don't see how that possibly hedges any of Enron's risks or assets," Mr. [Douglas Carmichael] says. Indeed, the disclosures have given rise to widespread speculation that Enron's actual purpose was to use its off-balance-sheet transactions to shift losses off its books to avoid running them through its income statement. Asked whether that was Enron's purpose, Ms. [Karen Denne] declines to comment. She says Enron stands by its earlier statement that Enron was trying to hedge certain investments.   
