19811213
OVER the years, I have been subjected to strange looks and wan smiles when I was sufficiently loose-tongued to reveal that the full moon, even when hidden by heavy clouds, makes me restless and ill at ease.  Now, two researchers at the University of California, Dr. Gordon Grau and Richard Nishioka, have discovered strong evidence that there is a connection between moon phases and the time a young Pacific salmon is ready to leave the stream of its birth.  The research, done in the laboratory of Professor Howard Bern with funding from the Federal Sea Grant program, indicates that peak levels of thyroxin, a thyroid hormone that Dr. Grau and Mr. Nishioka believe triggers the urge in a young salmon (smolt) to move to salt water from its home stream occurs during the period of a new moon. There is also evidence, says Mr. Nishioka, that in some instances the full moon may create such a response.  Thyroxin is in all vertebrates. It is produced by the thyroid gland and regulates metabolism. It is also made synthetically for treatment of thyroid disorders.  Nearly all sea-run salmon - after attaining growth and maturity in salt water - return to their precise home rivers to spawn. A few ascend other streams, but not many. There are five species of salmon on our West Coast and all die after spawning. The Atlantic salmon, on the other hand, may repeat the cycle two or three times or more.  In an effort to increase the populations of coho and shinook salmon, which are subject to heavy predation from many sources including man, state and Federal hatcheries in California rear and release millions of salmon smolt annually.  Until recently, judgment based on years of experience in dealing with the hatchery fish has determined when they would be released. Signs of this readiness include a more ''silvery'' appearance, a change in weight-to-length ratio, a tendency to gather at the downstream ends of the hatcheries, plus, in more recent years, rather complicated blood enzyme tests.  But biologists have long felt that these releases have not always been properly timed, says Bob Rawstron of the anadromous fisheries section of California's Department of Fish and Game.  Mr. Rawstron said that while confined to hatcheries, young salmon are relatively safe, but once released into the river's heavy predation, primarily from other fishes, begins. He noted that the longer smolt remain in the river, the greater this predation, and added that if the release date is badly off, some of the smolt simply end their thrust toward the salt water and die. This last is particularly true of coho. Chinook appear to be much more adaptable.  It is hoped that timing the releases with the lunar cycles will elminate much of this problem. Rawstron also noticed that the same river systems down which the hatchery fish descend are also being used by wild salmon smolt, and while both are in fresh water they are competing for the same food. Proper timing of hatchery fish releases would make this competition as limited as possible. There is nothing, of course, that can be done about controlling such competition, or predation, after the fish reach the ocean.  The California hatcheries range from a few miles above tidewater to more than 100 miles. In the Sacramento River system, Mr. Rawstron said, they are now transporting the shinook smolt - which, as mentioned before, are more adaptable to coho smolt - directly to brackish water for release.  In a recent telephone interview, Mr. Nishioka said that his and Dr. Grau's research began with cohos in 1976. He said he and Dr. Grau did not personally discover the thyroxin surge in smolt, that others, including Dr. Walton Dickoff and his associates at the University of Washington in Seattle, were aware of it.  In the spring of 1980, more than 350,000 coho smolt were released in California in accordance with the thyronix-moon phase theory and such releases with both them and shinook will continue. It will take several years before proper assessment of these annual plantings can be made. Coho, for example, may remain at sea from two to four years and shinook from two to eight years.  The thyroxin surge apparently isn't limited to California salmon. In a recent trip to Japan to take a look at that country's salmon aquaculture, Mr. Nishioka learned that one of Japan's salmon, the Masu, a lovely, little fish (about three pounds at maturity) that resembles a rainbow trout, is similarly affected.  And, finally, man has long pondered how the sea-run salmons of the world find their way back to the streams of their birth - many times not only to the main stem but through a labyrinth of tributaries to the precise home pool. The California researchers believe this imprint, which occurs during smoltification, may also be linked to the high thyroxin levels in the fish at that time. 
