19820306
Questions appear on page 21. 1. They agreed to play in South Africa, which, because of its policy of apartheid, has for 12 years has been isolated from topclass international cricket contests. 2. Senator Harrison A. Williams Jr. defended himself before his colleagues in proceedings to determine whether he should be expelled from the Senate for misconduct.  3. A test of emergency plans at the Indian Point 3 nuclear plant. 4. London. 5. China and the United States. The Shanghai Communique. 6. He is the first bowler to earn more than $1 million in tournament prizes. 7. The United Automobile Workers, in an agreement with the Ford Motor Company, and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. 8. The Welsh poet Dylan Thomas. Poets' Corner. 9. Whether William F. Baxter, the chief of the Justice Department antitrust division acted improperly in dismissing the Government's antitrust case against the International Business Machines Corporation. He failed to disclose that had been a consultant to I.B.M. in a previous antitrust case.  10. Medallion taxi service in New York City. 11. In Moscow, Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, the Polish leader, assured Soviet leaders that further attacks on Communist rule in Poland ''will be cut short.'' In Jerusalem, President Francois Mitterrand of France advised that Israel must offer Palestinians more equitable arrangements if there is ever to be a lasting peace.  12. He and other celebrities were trying to prevent the demolition of two Broadway theaters, the Morosco and the Helen Hayes, which were scheduled to be razed so a hotel could be constructed.  13. It virtually eliminates school busing for racial integration. 14. The program introduces unmarried listeners. 15. 25. 16. Venus. 17. Air bases in Colombia and Honduras. 18. All the tasks were performed by robots at the robotics industry's annual trade show. 19. North Dakota. 20. To win three more games and reach 300 victories. 21. He is vice chief of staff of the Army and the post is customarily given to a chief of staff of one of the military services.  22. A collection of European art valued at $60 million. The Metropolitan Museum of Art. 23. The first American astronauts. 
