19820319
KATHRYN POSIN is a puzzler. Her Kathryn Posin Dance Company, which opened Wednesday night in the Public Theater's Martinson Hall, moves very sleekly indeed. Yet she is sometimes willing to settle for the trivial. And she can be trivial to serious and frivolous music alike.  ''The Glass Engine,'' a new work to music by Philip Glass, began impressively with six dancers rhythmically rising from crooked positions on the floor. Moving like parts of a complex machine, the cast demonstrated that ''The Glass Engine'' was not just a punning title, but one that captured the spirit of the piece.  Then Miss Posin spoiled her effect by introducing solos and duets, and the work virtually became a conventional divertissement. In fact, Miss Posin often relies too much on conventional ideas.  Thus her ''Galena Summit,'' though set to music by Steve Reich, one of our most controversial composers, was a jolly dance about mountain climbing, complete with gestures suggesting struggling upwards and hallooing to companions on the trail. The choreography looked much more tame than the music sounded.  ''The Nickel and Dime Lounge,'' the new work that Miss Posin created in association with David Chambers, took place in a speakeasy where, to old records, merrymakers offered social dances and tap-andtoe routines. But these parodies were pointless. And, considering how many dances, films and musicals there are about the Roaring 20's, can Miss Posin really think that the mere sight of some flappers is enough to bring down the house?  A few narrative details contributed little. Alistair Butler lurked like a figure of fate. One of the bar's black employees (Anthony Stafford) pined after a white flapper (E. Laura Hausmann). He, in turn, was sighed over by a white cigarette girl (Miss Posin). Yet because these situations remained undeveloped and nothing was made of their sociological implications, it was never clear why they were introduced.  There was one surprise member of the cast. Portraying a man about town, Joseph Papp, director of the New York Shakespeare Festival, sauntered through and crooned ''The Song Is Ended.'' Because the program indicated that he would appear only on Wednesday, his role has presumably been written out of the dance for the remainder of the group's engagement, which ends Sunday. 
