19820324
CAREER By MARIAN BURROS  THE French-born chef-owner of La Cote Basque in Manhattan, Jean-Jacques Rachou, has 21 chefs in his restaurant kitchen and 16 of them are American. ''I know this will get me in trouble,'' he said recently, ''but American chefs are better than French. They have a good education. They're smart. They learn fast. They respect you. They really want to learn.''  The Americans at La Cote Basque are part of a burgeoning phenomenon, a new breed of young men and women who have chosen careers in cooking. In recent years their impact has been widely felt: Professional cooking schools, which once went looking for students, have long waiting lists even though the number of schools has increased dramatically in the last five years. Americans are taking over the kitchens of some of the finest restaurants, once the domain of Europeans, most of them French. A few of the chefs are formulating a new cuisine combining classical techniques with American ingredients.  In the last 8 to 10 years men who once confined their cooking to weekends at the charcoal grill and women who spent hours fluting mushrooms for fancy dinner parties have been flocking to cooking schools. In 1973 Johnson & Wales College in Providence, R.I., had 141 students in its new culinary-arts program; this year there are 1,600. The year-old New York Restaurant School in Manhattan has two applicants for every place in its classes. A smaller number of budding chefs have worked their way up in restaurants from dishwasher to sous-chef (second in command in the kitchen) and even head chef - an apprenticeship with pay. According to the United States Labor Department, there will be 86,000 cook's and chef's jobs in the next decade, almost double the openings in the last 10 years.  At a time when so many young people with college degrees are unable to find jobs, chefs are in demand. When they graduate from one of the better-known culinary academies they often have at least four or five job offers. Before they are 30 some of them earn $40,000 a year and more.  There are a number of reasons for the boom in the cooking profession. A decade ago French chefs imported Frenchmen to cook in American kitchens. Then in 1969 the Federal Government severely restricted the admission of foreign chefs, so restaurants were forced to hire Americans. At the same time more and more Americans were traveling, eating out, buying cookbooks, taking lessons and cooking seriously. Cooking became an increasingly chic hobby for men; choosing a chef's toque over a doctor's stethescope or lawyer's briefcase became respectable.  In the mid-1970's the Labor Department, which had lumped chefs with domestics, removed them from the service classification and put them in the professional category, so being a chef was no longer a bluecollar job.  ''In the old days,'' said Joseph Amendola, senior vice president of the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., ''the only thing you read about a chef was when he chased a waitress out of the restaurant with a cleaver.'' Today the chef is seen as a romantic figure. Jonathan Waxman, chef at Michael's Restaurant in Santa Monica, Calif., credits three-star chefs like Paul Bocuse, Michel Guerard and the Troisgros brothers for the new image. When those chefs left their stoves and sold nouvelle cuisine through tours across America and through cookbooks and expensive products bearing their names, they glamorized the profession.  ''When you read about them in Time magazine,'' Mr. Waxman said, ''it was a very exciting revolution, very tantalizing to a young American.''  The prestige and honor that have been accorded to European chefs for years are being inherited by their American counterparts, according to Larry Forgione, a graduate of the Culinary Institute and chef at the River Cafe in Brooklyn, which specializes in American food. ''People that normally wanted their sons to be lawyers and doctors are willing to let them be chefs,'' he said.  ''A lot of people are impressed when I tell them I'm a chef at La Cote Basque,'' said Bruce Egdahl, a 25-year-old graduate of the Culinary Institute. ''People look up to a chef now.''  Daniel Knerr, the night sous-chef at La Cote Basque, apprenticed at a classical French restaurant in Philadelphia, Le Bec Fin, but that was after he had gone to drama school because he wanted to be a movie star. ''I had delusions of grandeur but got discouraged,'' he said. ''My father was a Yale graduate and he wanted me to go to Yale. When I went to drama school he practically cut me off.'' Now, Mr. Knerr went on, his father is proud ''because it took a lot of guts to work my way up.''  UPPICK 1st & LAST AD LEARN 1st & LAST AD LEARN-C6  Not all the young chefs are working in French kitchens. Many are applying the fundamentals of French cookery to American ingredients and fashioning an American cuisine in their own restaurants: Michael McCarty at Michael's in Santa Monica, Barry Wine at the Quilted Giraffe in Manhattan, Jason Wolin at 209 1/2 in Washington, Alice Waters at Chez Panisse in Berkeley, Calif. They have rekindled an interest in regional cooking and are cross-pollinating the culinary traditions that have influenced American food: Chinese mushrooms in salads dressed in the French manner, Italian pizza crusts topped with barbecued fish and meat, American grilled steaks flavored with Mexican seasonings. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
