19980320
 Travel: How Farebusters Play the Airlines --- Savvy Travelers Can Beat Carriers at Their Game Of Ever-Changing Prices   By By Nancy Keates, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 20, 1998  Not if you know about the latest in fare-busting techniques -- and the emphasis here is on latest. Airlines haven't only been raising fares more; they have also cracked down on most of the fare-saving tactics of old. (Remember the days of "hidden city" fares, where it was cheaper to add a phony destination to your itinerary?) Even many of the newer discount programs the airlines themselves have created are becoming tiresome, like the "weekend getaway" deals they now offer every week through e-mail. Who wants to wait until Saturday morning to leave for a long weekend, as most of them require?  So do mistakes when the airlines are plugging new fares into their reservations systems, which they do more than 100,000 times a day. Travelers can scan the Internet for these changes and spot egregious errors. There is even a Web site (http://www.bestfares.com) that lists some of these "Snooze You Lose" fares. Last fall, Sarah Rickert, an in-house travel agent for Nexstar Pharmaceuticals Inc., took advantage of a Delta goof: a $182 round trip between Denver and Honolulu, $600 off the normal fare. "For that price, I could take my son out of school," she says, and did, for a week's vacation.  Machine Over Man: Lee Miller, a Boston salesman, was ready to give up a trip to Las Vegas when his travel agent said the best fare she could find was $450, even with a 21-day advance purchase. But his agent is also one of a growing number who use a high-tech fare finder, which can do what no person can: stay up 24 hours a day to check for favorable changes in air fares. At last count, more than a third of all major agencies had this or a similar system (one goes by the bizarre acronym of Aqua; another is simply called Bargain Finders). Mr. Miller was glad his agent did: Two days later, she came through with a $150 ticket.   
