19820629
WASHINGTON, June 28— John S.R. Shad, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, announced today that he would remove himself from further participation in a new underwriting rule now before the agency. He cited the question of a potential conflict of interest that was raised because of his financial dealings with Morgan Stanley & Company, the investment banking firm.  Mr. Shad's unexpected move came as two major investment houses, in testimony at the start of hearings on the new rule, gave their guarded endorsement of the commission regulation. They cautioned, however, that without significant changes Rule 415 could undermine the traditional role of investment houses in bringing new stocks and bonds to market.  The opening testimony came from John H. Gutfreund, chairman of Salomon Brothers Inc., and Ira T. Wender, president of Warburg Paribas Becker/A.G. Becker.  The commission has scheduled five days of hearings on the rule to consider whether to make it a permanent regulation. It was adopted by the commission in February for a nine-month trial period. The rule broadened a registration procedure that permits certain corporations to file one prospectus for long-term financing and then keep the securities ''on the shelf'' for quick sale from time to time to carry out the financing whenever market conditions seem favorable. In the past, corporations had to file a prospectus each time they planned a public sale of securities, a time-consuming process that favored the use of investment bankers.  The new rule was bitterly opposed by many investment banks, led by Morgan Stanley, because they regarded it as weakening their role in marketing new issues of stocks and bonds. They also have complained that the sudden sales might disrupt the markets.  The conflict-of-interest question arose for Mr. Shad when it was disclosed that, at the time of the commission's vote to test Rule 415 for nine months, Morgan Stanley was retiring a $7.8 million debt it owed Mr. Shad. The debt reflected a three-year installment note in payment for E.F. Hutton Group Inc. stock that Morgan Stanley bought from Mr. Shad and resold in the open market.  Mr. Shad's decision today was viewed as significant by some analysts who said he would have been a critic of making the new rule permanent. Before his appointment as commission chairman, Mr. Shad had spent almost all of his working life on Wall Street, rising to vice chairman of the E.F. Hutton Group as a specialist in mergers and acquisitions.  Mr. Shad, his voice tense with emotion, said that, following charges last March about his participation in the Rule 415 decision, he had obtained an opinion from the commission's general counsel that his financial ties did not pose a conflict of interest or otherwise bar him from participating in the decision.  Nevertheless, Congressional sources say that a House panel is examining Mr. Shad's stock sale to Morgan Stanley and is considering whether that sale and his involvement in the rule-making process violated any conflict-of-interest regulations.  Mr. Gutfreund of Salomon Brothers called the shelf concept ''a good idea'' in principle and added, ''There is no reason to require an issuer that finances frequently to undergo a filing and review procedure for each transaction.'' He cautioned, however, that ''the dilution of due diligence under Rule 415, in my judgment, threatens a significant loss of investor protection.''  Mr. Gutfreund recalled that during the preparation of an offering circular for Penn Central in 1970, a process that lasted several weeks, new facts were brought to light uncovering the company's true financial condition. ''I question whether the underwriter would have discovered problems with Penn Central under today's instantaneous shelf procedures,'' Mr. Gutfreund said.  Mr. Wender of Warburg Paribas Becker, while supporting the commission's attempt to streamline reporting procedures, expressed concern over a ''haphazard bidding process,'' which he said had accompanied Rule 415 deals so far.  In contrast to the reservations mentioned by the investment bankers, Donald S. Howard, executive vice president of Citicorp, said: ''We are enthusiastic supporters of Rule 415. It allows us to do things faster, cheaper and a lot easier. There's a lot less strain.'' 
