19861117
PARIS, Nov. 16— ''Why Not the Pantheon?'' was the rather unusual headline in the serious, sober Le Monde last week.  It referred to what a columnist for the paper called ''an unfurling of superfluous messages and excessive sorrows'' that followed the death Thursday of Thierry Le Luron, a popular 34-year-old nightclub comedian whose specialty consisted of uncannily accurate caricatures of France's political figures.  Le Monde's columnist, Daniele Heymann, was about the only commentator here on the day after Mr. Le Luron's death to note the exaggerated and deeply emotional effect that the event had on French society, which treated it with degrees of bereavement and attention worthy of the passing of a head of state or a giant of literature.  Mr. Le Luron, a slight, boyish man popular here for the last decade or so, was known, among other things, for his creation of a character called Adolphe-Benito Glandu. The character was a rightist bigot full of rancor whom he lampooned with savage effect - in so doing lampooning as well a certain prototype of the ordinary Frenchman from the provinces largely untouched by the values of the Enlightenment.  Women Weep on the Street  When he died of what his manager called intestinal cancer - after trying to keep his illness a secret for several months - the event took on the proportions of a national tragedy, showing that Mr. Le Luron had touched some very deep sentiment in the collective French soul.  Women wept on the street. Virtually every major political figure in this country, including those he mercilessly mimicked in his nightclub sketches, issued testimonials on his behalf. At least two, including former President Valery Giscard d'Estaing, credited him with mirroring their vocal faults so perfectly that they strove to correct them.  ''The great media tears, the chorus of cathode ray tube testimonials add nothing to his talent, which remains living,'' the commentator for Le Monde said Friday, making her sarcastic suggestion that Mr. Le Luron be buried in the Pantheon, beside French heroes such as Victor Hugo and Emile Zola. Not in Pantheon, but in Church  Mr. Le Luron will be buried Tuesday in Brittany, not in the Pantheon. But on Saturday thousands of people waited for hours to pass by his closed coffin, which was placed on a catafalque inside the great Madeleine church in Paris. That is in itself the kind of honor that would not normally go to a nightclub comedian, even one with such unmistakable talent.  And so, after Mr. Le Luron's death, some thoughtful people in French society were asking what the trauma occasioned by his death suggests about the preoccupations of the French these days. Why was Thierry Le Luron so popular?  The answer seems to lie in two elements surrounding both his life and his death, one of them circumstantial and the other linked to longstanding French obsessions.  The circumstantial factor was that Mr. Le Luron's final days became the stuff of a medical drama, which had been amply served up in serial fashion in the last several months by the glossy picture magazines here. Rumors of His Illness  The first sign of his sickness came almost a year ago when he canceled a scheduled performance, giving rise to rumors that he had cancer or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, or AIDS.  Mr. Le Luron angrily denied in interviews in the glossy magazines that he had either disease, asserting at one time that he was not the ''French Rock Hudson,'' referring to the American actor who died of AIDS last year. ''My sickness is these rumors,'' he said in one interview.  Officially, it was said Thursday that Mr. Le Luron died of intestinal cancer, and there is no proof whatsoever that the truth is otherwise. But it is clear as well that during his struggle, the possibility that he was suffering from AIDS gave rise to a widespread morbid curiosity.  Now there are sly suggestions -again without proof - that Mr. Le Luron's death has become the object of a medical cover-up. Le Monde, in its report Friday, for example, spoke of the ''exemplary, solitary combat that he waged against the very name of his disease.'' Another Comedian Who Died  There was more to the national attention given to Mr. Le Luron. It happens that his death came just five months after a motorcycle accident killed his only real competitor for the position of France's most beloved comedian, a Rabelaisian and often intentionally vulgar 41-year-old actor named simply Coluche.  Whereas Mr. Le Luron was slight, boyish and elegant, Coluche was a sledgehammer comedian, a jowly, heavyset man who dressed himself up as Tarzan or as a vulgarly bejeweled society madame. His political sympathies lay on the left.  Mr. Le Luron was known as a rightist, even though his most celebrated act, besides the proto-fascist Monsieur Glandu, was to caricature with uncanny exactitude virtually all the major members of the French political class, making presidents, prime ministers and the heads of political parties look selfish and venal, petty and ridiculous. Humor and Guillotines  What linked the two men was their comic irreverence and the unsparing nature of their satire. They both used humor to deal with power the way revolutionaries once used the guillotine, and this in itself was revolutionary in its way. Until Coluche and Thierry Le Luron came along, political figures, even when they were hated, had been treated with a quasi-religious respectfulness in France.  That alone guaranteed both of them a certain notoriety. After Mr. Le Luron's death, French political figures issued glowing statements of praise and affection for the man who had achieved such success ridiculing them.  Clearly, it had become something of a badge of honor to have been one of Mr. Le Luron's targets. Serge July, the editor of the newspaper Liberation, said Mr. Le Luron picked out from among ambitious men and women those who would ''become the noted personalities of the tragicomedy of power.''  ''The two of them,'' Mr. July said, referring to Mr. Le Luron and Coluche, ''taught the French of the 1980's that they could laugh at anything, without exception.''  Then, within five months, both of them died, and it was clear that France felt bereft of its incitements to laughter.  Photo of mourner leaving flowers at coffin of Thierny Le Luron (Agence France-Presse); Photo of Thierry Le Luron 
