20011206
 Review / Film -- The New Rat Pack: Clooney and Co. Make `Ocean's Eleven' Smooth --- It's Not Deep, but Heist Remake Is a Clever, Stylish Diversion; A Dark, Funny `No Man's Land'   By By Joe Morgenstern, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 7, 2001  "OCEAN'S ELEVEN" is one smoothie of a movie, a self-assured action-adventure about a mostly self-assured crew of con men who pull off an epic trifecta in Las Vegas -- a three-casino heist. Steven Soderbergh directed this elaborate reworking of the 1960 original, a cheesy Rat Pack saga that starred Frank Sinatra as the desert expedition's instigator and leader, Danny Ocean. The new one, with a crisp, clever script by Ted Griffin, puts George Clooney together with an impressive ensemble cast that includes Matt Damon, Andy Garcia, Brad Pitt, Julia Roberts, Casey Affleck, Scott Caan, Elliott Gould, Bernie Mac and Carl Reiner. "Ocean's Eleven" is best enjoyed if you check your skepticism -- and hunger for substance -- at the door. Once you do, the thieves' far-fetched technology seems as fetching in its way as Ms. Roberts descending a hotel staircase, and all of their outlandish diversionary tactics enhance a film that is itself a diversionary tactic of a high order.  There's intimacy as well as honor among these thieves, and sly complicity between George Clooney's Danny and Brad Pitt's Rusty, a gambler reduced to teaching movie stars how to play poker. Bernie Mac has several sensational scenes as a blackjack dealer with multilayered attitude. Carl Reiner is droll and touching as a possibly doddering geezer who transforms himself into an exalted Russian hustler worthy of Armand Hammer. Matt Damon finds the right touch, which is a light touch, for his pickpocket character's timidity. Don Cheadle's Cockney explosives expert makes the English language at least as incomprehensible as Brad Pitt did in the role of an Irish Gypsy boxer in "Snatch." Andy Garcia's steely hotelier is charmingly humorless as the master of all he surveils. Julia Roberts shows what it means to be a caged bird with no reason to sing. Elliott Gould's deposed Las Vegas kingpin manifests huge zest for living, though even more for sweet revenge.   
