20030303
 Wanted Men: In Iraq, Saddam Isn't the Only One U.S. Is Targeting --- `Regime Change' Plan Extends To Inner Circle, Including Sons and Longtime Aides --- The `Filthy 40' at the Top   By By Christopher Cooper, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 4, 2003  Mr. Hussein's sons are high on the list. Qusay Hussein, the youngest son, born in 1966, is head of the Republican Guard, Iraq's elite fighting force. Iraq experts say Qusay, considered the more level-headed of the sons, appears to have edged out his brother [Uday Hussein] as the heir-apparent to Mr. Hussein. Uday, who is two years older than his brother, oversees Iraq's state-run media and is the commander of Fedayeen forces, a paramilitary group. The subject of an assassination attempt in 1996, Uday is at least partially paralyzed. The brothers are believed to be bitter rivals.  One of the tricky questions facing the U.S. is what to do with these men once they are within American reach. Many are military combatants as well as government officials, and they may well be targeted for attack in any military action. But officials acknowledge that the U.S. will be interested in capturing alive and then interrogating many of them, in hopes of uncovering biological and chemical weapons caches that drew America into a war in the first place. The [Bush] team also may be interested in bringing some of them to war-crimes trials, which could be used to show that U.S. forces acted as liberators, not invading conquerors.  Government officials say only about 40 of the 2,000 people on the Pentagon's list -- dubbed the "filthy 40" by the State Department -- are considered beyond rehabilitation, and thus targets for capture or killing by U.S. troops. In putting together its list, the Pentagon takes suggestions from dissident organizations and Indict, a nonprofit, ad hoc group of war-crimes investigators. Operating out of London, Indict works with a small staff and is kept in business primarily by the U.S. government, which has given the group about $3 million since its inception in 1997, including more than $600,000 this year.   
