20011009
 Theater: A Timely Gift of Timeless Ovid ---- Ms. Zimmerman's `Metamorphoses' Haunts, Humors and Consoles With Deeply Human Myths   By By Amy Gamerman, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 10, 2001  There are irresistibly giddy scenes as well -- like the tale of Phaeton, who borrowed the chariot of his father, Apollo, only to burn up when he flew too close to the sun. Here, Phaeton (Doug Hara) is a spoiled rich kid who lolls on a yellow raft in matching swim trunks and sunglasses as he confides the details of his relationship with his distant, daunting, sun-god dad (Mr. [Erik Lochtefeld]) to his therapist (Lisa Tejero, in the requisite chic black pantsuit). Making the mistake of so many estranged fathers, Apollo -- who beatifically sings a Mozart aria as he converses with his son -- offers to give him whatever he wants. "Now, there's only one thing I want, I mean it's obvious, right?" bratty Phaeton tells his shrink. "I say, `Give me the keys to your car.'" Mr. Hara also makes an amusing Narcissus in a neat little sight gag of a sketch: Captivated by his own reflection as he kneels over the pool, he's finally carried offstage and replaced with a potted white narcissus plant.  The play's central subject and preoccupation is loss, and nothing confronts it more poignantly than Ms. [Mary Zimmerman]'s version of the myth of Ceyx (Mr. Lochtefeld) and Alcyon (Louise Lamson). This king and queen live "in a monotony of happiness" until Ceyx goes off to sea, ignoring his wife's dire premonitions. A toy ship -- pathetically vulnerable-looking -- is set afloat. Two gods with seaweed wrapped around their biceps douse it and the unfortunate Ceyx with buckets of water. Ms. Lamson wades back and forth at the edge of the pool in agonized suspense, holding a lantern as she searches the waves for a sign of her husband's ship. Sleep (Chris Kipiniak), a snoring narcoleptic in a black knit cap topped with "N"s and "Z"s on springy coils, finally sends her a vision of her lost husband to break the news of his death. "Look at me, and know your husband's ghost," Ceyx tells his wife. "Your prayers have done no good, for I am gone, beyond all help or hope forever."  Harris Yulin makes a good foil as Judge Brack: a suave and vaguely disreputable old burgher who looks a little like a Norwegian gangster in his sharp suits and glittering rings. He and Ms. [Kate Burton] have the best chemistry of anyone onstage -- somewhat improbably, you find yourself thinking what a good couple Brack and Hedda would make. That spark is missing from Hedda's scenes with her great love, Eilert Lovborg (David Lansbury). It's hard to imagine why Hedda would even bother lending this dolt one of her beloved pistols to kill himself. "It's funny -- it's comedy, isn't it?" Hedda says, upon hearing that Lovborg has done so, not with a noble shot through the heart, but with a clumsy misfire. Perhaps Ms. Burton and company take those words too literally. By the end of the night, this great tragic play rings as hollow as Hedda's joyless peals of laughter.   
