19860517
PITAL, Costa Rica, May 16— Eden Pastora Gomez, the leader of an anti-Sandinista guerrilla force, announced today that he was laying down his weapons and permanently abandoning his war against the Nicaraguan Government.  Mr. Pastora, who won fame as a leader of the Sandinista revolution known as Commander Zero, described himself as ''shot down by the C.I.A., but not defeated.''  ''They denied us aid,'' he said of the Central Intelligence Agency.  According to his aides, Mr. Pastora's force, which has operated mainly in southeastern Nicaragua, was cut off from C.I.A. support because he has refused to unite with other rebel groups belonging to an American-backed coaliion called the United Nicaraguan Opposition.  The other rebel leaders began talks in Miami this week in an effort to work out their differences, which are so deep that some rebel officials think one key leader may quit the coalition. #8 Commanders Desert Him Mr. Pastora has said he will not unite with the opposition group because some of its leaders were loyal to the deposed Government of President Anastasio Somoza Debayle. Earlier this week, six of his eight senior commanders deserted him and joined the United Nicaraguan Opposition.  ''There is no reason for one more Nicaraguan to die because there is no possibility of military victory,'' the graying 49-year-old rebel said after wading with 60 of his men across the San Juan River roughly 30 miles northeast of the village of Pital. The river forms the border between Costa Rica and Nicaragua.  Mr. Pastora said more than 1,000 more of his men would soon be entering Costa Rica, though there is some doubt that his force is that large.  The part of the Costa Rica-Nicaragua border where Mr. Pastora met reporters today is a thick tropical rain forest bisected by the San Juan River. Mr. Pastora and his men have made this terrain their home for nearly four years, seeking without success to undermine the Sandinista Government to which he once belonged.  Until Congress ordered the backing halted in 1984. the C.I.A. had directly helped the other rebels, most of whom are members of the largest insurgent group, the Honduran-based Nicaraguan Democratic Force. Last year, Congress authorized $27 million in nonmilitary aid to the rebels, known as contras. President Reagan's has been unsuccessful so far in persuading lawmakers to approve $100 million in military and economic aid. Asks for Political Asylum  Mr. Pastora was met by a crowd of journalists who had traveled from the Costa Rican capital, San Jose, 155 miles southwest of the site, in a caravan organized by his Revolutionary Democratic Alliance. He was also met by the Deputy Minister of Public Security, Col. Rogelio Castro Pinto, who said the rebel leader and his men would be held in custody in San Jose for a limited time while the Government decides how to deal with their requests for political asylum.  Mr. Pastora said he would now use political means to oppose the Sandinista Government, which he describes as ''of the extreme left.'' But he said he doubted that the Sandinistas would allow any political party he headed to function inside Nicaragua.  At the beginning of the anti-Sandinista insurgency five years ago, American intelligence officials viewed Mr. Pastora as an important asset to the rebel cause. According to diplomats in Managua and San Jose, Mr. Pastora received clandestine financial aid from the C.I.A. from 1982 to 1984, but was cut off after he refused to support American-backed plans to unify the various rebel groups and began to criticize the agency in public.  Many officials in the region believe Mr. Pastora's withdrawal will strengthen the United Nicaraguan Opposition. But diplomats in Managua speculated that it might also harm the movement's public image by removing from its ranks a popular figure with impeccable anti-Somoza credentials.  The rebel leaders meeting in Miami had a conciliatory response to news of his withdrawal. One, Alfonso Robelo, said, ''The doors of the United Nicaraguan Opposition will always be open to an accord with him.'' 
