19811224
AN investment entity is offering Texas International a choice reminiscent of that faced by a widow who can either buy out her husband's business partner or sell out to him for the same money.  The entity - as yet unidentified - is offering to pay the Oklahoma City-based oil company $20 in cash for each of its 5.4 million shares of Phoenix Resources. The offer, in terms of value, is slightly above what Texas International currently proposes to pay for the 48.2 percent of Phoenix Resources it does not own.  The Texas International offer contemplates the exchange of half a share of its stock for each share of Phoenix, which is also based in Oklahoma City and has widespread oil and gas holdings. At yesterday's closing price of 38 3/4, up 1/2, the Texas International offer would be worth $19.38 per share of Phoenix.  Texas International has indicated that it will not sell to the investor group, even though its refusal may be interpreted by the minority holders in Phoenix Resources as confirming that its offer to them is unfair, as several of them have charged.  Acceptance of the proposal would raise $112 million, but it is not clear what tax liability Texas International would incur in a cash deal. An exchange of shares is ordinarily not taxable.  Texas International could use the money. Drilling in its promising Eloi Bay field will cost $2 million per well. The $112 million offered by the investing group would pay for scores of wells, even if Texas International were subject to substantial capital gains taxes.  A letter detailing the proposal asks that Texas International get in touch with Stephen W. Arky, senior partner of the Miami law firm of Arky, Freed, Stearns, Watson & Greer. Reached by telephone yesterday, Mr. Arky confirmed the existence of the offer, which is conditioned on matters thought to be routine: acceptance by regulatory authorities and verification of Phoenix's data already in Securities and Exchange Commission files.  Mr. Arky said that so far no reply had been forthcoming from Texas International, though he believed the letter reached the company on Monday. Mr. Arky declined to identify the prospective purchaser, nor would he say whether an individual, partnership, corporation, consortium or other entity was involved.  The letter does not extend the offer to minority holders of Phoenix shares, presumably based on the assumption that the minority holders' antagonism to the Texas International offer reflects their belief that the shares are worth more than $20.  The exchange proposed in Texas International's offer is adjusted from an earlier offer to reflect the doubling in value of Texas International in the wake of wildcat oil discoveries in its 41,000-acre Eloi Bay field.  But Eloi Bay drilling is in an early phase and potential reserves are unproved. One analyst, who asked for anonymity, believes that Texas International will be lucky to recover one-tenth of the 1.5 trillion to 2 trillion cubic feet of gas often mentioned as possible by the company and its Wall Street enthusiasts. The analyst estimates that chances are 1 in 50 that the Eloi Bay field will prove as prolific as the optmistic estimates.  Some have speculated that Texas International's asset value would have to reach $80 and $100 a share for its half-for-a-share exchange ratio to be deemed fair by Phoenix's investment adviser, Morgan Stanley & Company.  Earlier in the year, when Morgan Stanley was assiting Phoenix in an attempt to liquidate its properties, the combined asking prices ranged to $40 to $50 a share.  Under a merger, Texas International would have access to Phoenix's unused bank lines of more than $100 million. Phoenix assets would double Texas International's book value. Texas International is especially attracted by Phoenix's promising holdings in the Arctic Islands in northern Canada.  Russell Burget, vice president in charge of investor relations at Texas International, confirmed that the company had received an offer for its stake in Phoenix, but added that the company was not at liberty to say from whom or in what amount. ''The board met this morning, and voted that it was not in the best interest of Texas International to sell its shares of Phoenix International,'' he said.  Texas International obtained its Phoenix shares following the reorganization of the bankrupt King Resources Company. Under terms of the settlement, unsecured creditors divided the entire equity interest in the new company. It was called Phoenix, arising as it did out of the ashes of King Resources.  Texas International's interest in Phoenix arises out of purchases of creditors' claims against King Resources, which were subsequently converted into Phoenix common shares. Those holdings were supplemented by purchases on the open market. 
