19810625
HOUSTON, June 24— With less than three months to go until their showdown bout, Sugar Ray Leonard and Thomas Hearns are getting closer to each other. They even sound alike.  ''I am concentrating on Ayub Kalule and not Thomas Hearns,'' Leonard said. ''I'm not even thinking about Tommy Hearns.'' ''I'm definitely concentrating on Pablo Baez,'' Hearns said. ''I can't outdo Leonard because I'm not fighting Leonard.'' Don't believe it. Although Leonard and Hearns will be risking at least $13 million and one world championship in separate title fights tomorrow night, both will be out to impress the world, and each other. The world's two welterweight champions are not fighting each other at the Astrodome, but the competition is real.  Most boxing people say Leonard and Hearns are fighting preliminaries for their Sept. 16 showdown, in which Leonard is guaranteed $8 million and Hearns $5 million. If that fight, which apparently will land in the Caesars Palace parking lot in Las Vegas, does as well as expected, the fighters can make even more. But first they have to take care of the business here.  Leonard, the World Boxing Council 147-pound champion, has the tougher task. He is not risking his title, but he is going after that of Ayub Kalule, the World Boxing Association junior middleweight (154-pound) champion. Whether Leonard will have to give up one title is moot: Since the W.B.A. and W.B.C. do not recognize the each other's champions, Leonard has an argument about retaining both. But if he is forced to give up one, it will be the 154-pound championship.  In Kalule, Leonard is facing a natural right-hander who fights from a southpaw stance, is undefeated in 36 pro fights and has never been knocked down. Leonard is 29-1 and, although not considered a heavy puncher, especially against bigger opponents, he should have little trouble hitting Kalule, who rarely moves his head while always moving forward.  Hearns will be defending his W.B.A. welterweight title against Pablo Baez, a Dominican with a 12-8-2 record and a good right hand. Sales Are Disappointing  If the fights go as expected, the biggest loser will be Bob Arum, the promoter. With isolated exceptions, closed-circuit sales at the 125 sites around the country are poor. Arum will probably lose at least $750,000, according to one source, and possibly more than $1 million.  This morning, he said he was going to sue Mike Trainer, Leonard's attorney, and withhold Leonard's purse because, Arum said, Trainer was in breach of contract for talking about the LeonardHearns fight ''and destroying this promotion.''  Trainer said Arum was ''taking the cornered-rat approach'' and that Leonard had already received a letter of credit for most of his $2.5 million purse.  Janks Morton, Leonard's trainer, was happy with his fighter's weight of 157 pounds today. ''You're going to see a strong puncher tomorrow,'' said Morton, predicting that Leonard would end the fight in eight rounds or less.  Leonard said, ''Kalule can't hurt me because he can't punch,'' an assessment agreed to by Hearns's manager, Emanuel Steward. ''To beat Leonard, you have to have a punch,'' Steward said. ''You can't beat Leonard by outboxing him. You have to hurt him. I don't think he has the greatest heart after he's hurt.''  Leonard said Hearns ''has nothing I want and I have what he wants.'' ''He's just a champion,'' Leonard said. ''He's not marketable. There's a bit of envy there. I don't know if it's hatred or jealousy, he just wants to be in my footsteps.'' Who's the Headliner?  Steward, more than Hearns, seems concerned with extraneous matters. He insisted that Hearns be called the main event and have first pick of training times. Then he got Hearns to go on after Leonard, but when informed that most of the reporters here might be interviewing Leonard while Hearns was fighting, Steward agreed to go on before Leonard. As a concession, the national anthem will be played before Hearns's fight.  Trainer says all this is funny. He said that Steward had insisted that the contract for the Sept. 16 fight contain a clause in which both fighters had to enter the ring at the same time.  ''All I care about is the money,'' said Trainer, pointing out that Hearns may be called the main event but he was getting only $420,000. 
