19820327
CLEARWATER, Fla. PETE ROSE was asked if Mike Schmidt, his Phillies' teammate and winner of the National League's Most Valuable Player award for the last two seasons, was the best player in baseball. ''He's the best one under 40,'' said Rose.  Pete Rose said it with a half-smile. Pete Rose turns 41 on April 14 - a week after his 20th major league season begins - and he goes into the last stages of his career the way he still generally arrives at second base - head first.  He has not missed a game in more than three years. Last season, he was second in the league in batting with a .325 average and led the league in hits.  He plays with the same zeal that was seen on national television when he knocked over the catcher Ray Fosse in the 1970 All-Star Game the night after Fosse had dinner at Rose's house; when he fought with Bud Harrelson, the Mets' shortstop, in a play at second base in the 1973 National League playoffs, and when he raced from first base to catch a foul pop that had dropped out of the glove of the catcher Bob Boone in the 1980 World Series.  '' I made a catch similar to that once,'' he was saying as he got into his uniform in the clubhouse recently at Jack Russell Field. ''I was with Cincinnati and playing center field. Alex Johnson was in left. It was in Atlanta. Early in the game someone hit a long high fly ball to the fence, Johnson swatted at it and knocked it back with his glove, and I had run over and I caught it.  ''Well, it's the bottom of the ninth and the game is tied and there are runners on base. The batter hits a line drive to Johnson. He runs in and it hits him right in the chest and it bounces away and we lose the game. As we're coming off the field, Alex says to me in all seriousness, 'Damn it, Rose, where were you on that one!' ''  In the recent offseason, Rose strained a back muscle playing tennis, one of the few injuries he has suffered as a professional athlete. He was told by his manager, Pat Corrales, that he should proceed slowly in spring training. That meant staying off the playing field.  Rose went into Corrales's office here. ''Skip,'' said Rose, ''please, don't treat me like a 40-year-old, because I don't play like one.''  ''We just want you to be careful,'' said Corrales. Rose countered that he had seen older players like Henry Aaron and Lou Brock, now retired, and Carl Yastrzemski, still active, begin to make concessions to age - taking days off, pampering injuries. ''You start acting old, you become old,'' said Rose.  Of the approximately 650 major league players, only seven are 40 or over - the pitchers Jim Kaat, Gaylord Perry, Woodie Fryman and Phil Niekro, and the first basemen Willie Stargell, Yastrzemski and Rose. Only Rose plays every day.  He wants to play every day because, first, each time at bat, each hit, each swing practically, adds a figure to his thick record - he's third in career hits, second in singles, fourth in doubles. Second, he lusts for the game. He is called Charlie Hustle.  ''That Charlie Hustle stuff is bull,'' he said. ''That's just the outside. What comes first is the enthusiasm, the wanting to do something. Some guys 20 years old don't have it, and they're old.''  Shortly after that meeting with Corrales, Rose was involved in a pitchers' pickoff drill. On one throw, he reached sharply and strained his back again.  ''It scared him,'' said the Phillies' team physician, Dr. Phillip Marone. ''He won't admit it, but you could detect certain signs. Like in his exercises, he was unconsciously more tentative.''  That was some three weeks ago. The other day, Rose, with the doctor's permission, took the field again. It was around 9:30 in the morning and the Phillies were assembling at the ball park to make a trip to Fort Lauderdale to play the Yankees. Rose would remain behind.  Carrying his bat, a pine-tar rag to keep his grip dry, and a white towel, Rose stepped into the batting net beside the Phillies' clubhouse. The batting net is a small enclosure used for hitting practice and consists solely of a pitcher's mound and a plate. On the hill, behind a screen, stood Henry King, the Phillies' left-handed batting practice pitcher.  Rose folded the towel and placed it down about 40 feet from King, to serve as a plate. He said the reason for being 20 feet closer to the pitcher was to work on his reflexes. Rose, a switch-hitter, batted right-handed against King.  Rose wore a maroon rubber sweat shirt, and white baseball pants that looked balloony because of the rubber sweat pants he wore underneath. Rose, who is 5 feet 11 inches tall, weighs about 210 pounds, and he plans to shed some five or six pounds before the season starts. His hair has no gray - he uses a dye that he advertises on television commercials - and he wears his hair in the straight-down style of an upturned mop.  A small crowd of interested Phillies in civilian clothes gathered. The usual roughhouse banter was observed as Rose slugged away, the batted balls hitting the net and plopping to the ground.  '' 'The Incredible Hulk' is back,'' a teammate noted for Rose's benefit.But the professional eye and ear noted his progress. ''All you have to hear is the sound of the hits,'' said Sparky Lyle, a relief pitcher. ''It's flush.'' After 55 minutes, Rose, sweat glistening on his neck, took up his large, dark claw mitt and repaired to first base, where King hit ground balls to him. Dr. Marone caught the throws and observed that Rose, using a lot of knee when bending, was doing fine.  No one else was on the field. As the Florida sun grew warmer and the sound of the fungoes echoed among the empty seats of the small ball park, Pete Rose and his shadow moved about on the yellow dirt infield. It was solitary, quiet and seemed like a moment framed in time.  Illustrations: photo of Pete Rose 
