20020211
 Book Chain to Take a Video-Game Retailer Public --- Barnes & Noble Plans Offering Of One-Third of GameStop To Cash In on Hot Market   By By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 12, 2002  Starting from a base of 1,038 video-game stores -- more than any other entity in the country -- GameStop sells titles for personal computers and video-game consoles, as well as accessories, in every available format. The company also offers a wide array of used games that appeal to players who devote 50 or 60 hours to a title and then trade it in for the next hot game. GameStop opened about 75 new stores last year and intends to open another 150 to 200 this year.  Mr. [Leonard Riggio]'s attempt to create a video-game retailing behemoth has been a bit of an odyssey. The 60-year-old retailer, who opened his first New York book store in 1965 to serve college students, launched Software Etc. Stores Inc. in 1987 and then helped merge it with Babbage's Inc. in 1994 to create NeoStar Retail Group Inc. As part of the merger, Mr. Riggio gave up control. Two years later, however, NeoStar cratered, and Mr. Riggio bought back a group of stores in bankruptcy court before selling them to Barnes & Noble. In June 2000, Barnes & Noble grabbed the final piece by purchasing video-game retailer Funco Inc., known in gaming circles for its extensive offerings of used titles.  The video-game business has always been fiercely competitive. It's hit-driven, and in the case of GameStop, most of the profits come in the fourth quarter. Unlike the book-retailing business, where Mr. Riggio pioneered superstores that came to dominate a fragmented industry of mom-and-pop bookstores, the video-game retailing industry is already carved up. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Target Corp. and Toys "R" Us Inc. are all major sellers. So, too, are the big consumer electronics chains, Circuit City Stores Inc. and Best Buy Co., which last year acquired the music retailer Musicland Stores Corp. There are also dozens of online retailers, plus the worry that as the nation develops more broadband capacity, kids will want to do much of their gaming online.   
