19990606
 Waiting for Care: Continuing-care communities offer peace of mind to residents and their families; That is, if you can ever get in the front gate   By By Lee Berton, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 7, 1999  What sounded like a simple-enough plan, though, became a long exercise in frustration. The Hawleys would spend three years on a waiting list for the CCRC of their choice -- only to be told after they had sold their home in New Jersey that the accommodations they wanted weren't available. That, in turn, forced a new search for living quarters; a temporary and sometimes -- uneasy move into their children's home; a battery of physical and psychological tests to see if they could qualify for acceptance into a second CCRC; an additional six-month wait for housing; and, finally, a move to a new home that, while pleasing, is a bit farther than they want to be from family.  The Hawleys' odyssey provides a glimpse of what awaits would-be residents of some of the most specialized, costly and desirable retirement communities on the market. CCRCs, as the name implies, offer peace of mind: a guarantee of care from the day you first move in almost until the day you die. A single CCRC, with a staff of hundreds, typically includes independent-living quarters (detached homes or apartments); assisted-living facilities, for residents who require help with tasks such as preparing meals or dressing; and a nursing home, for those who need more comprehensive medical care. A resident who grows frail over time, theoretically, can move from his or her independent-living site to an assisted-living apartment to the nursing home -- all within the same community. And all for a predetermined cost.  Such problems of course, were still over the horizon when the Hawleys began their search for a new home. Wishing to be close to their daughter in Maryland, they found what appeared to be a perfect CCRC in the town of Catonsville. Called Charlestown and operated by Senior Campus Living, a private developer and operator of retirement communities based in Baltimore, the community was an easy 15-minute drive to their children's home. A major hospital, Johns Hopkins, and the Baltimore airport were close, as was the Baltimore campus of the University of Maryland, which offered an educational atmosphere the Hawleys like. (Mrs. [Marion] Hawley had been dean of women at the University of Denver when she first began dating her husband, who is a retired chemical engineer and engineering consultant.)   
