19810313
All prima donnas like to make grand entrances. But Marilyn Zschau seems to specialize in them. The Juilliard-trained soprano's City Opera debut three years ago was as Minnie in ''The Girl of the Golden West,'' a role that she had already made very much her own on the European opera circuit. In Puccini's horse opera, Miss Zschau first bursts on the scene with six-shooters blazing, laying down the law in no uncertain terms to a saloon packed with hard-bitten cowboys.  Tonight, as Odabella in the City Opera's new production of Verdi's ''Attila,'' Miss Zschau once again storms onstage, this time in full armor, to hurl a furious and defiant high C into the face of the hated Hun himself. Attila is so taken aback with admiration at such heroism that he graciously presents the warrior maiden with his own sword - a gesture he later comes to regret. At the end of the opera, Odabella uses that very weapon to dispatch the Scourge of God and save Rome from the barbarians.  Miss Zschau (pronounced as in shout) is apparently accustomed to such vocal and dramatic heroics - her wide-ranging operatic repertory runs the gamut from Handel and Mozart to Strauss and Janacek. ''My voice seems to be capable of most anything,'' she says, not so much in a boastful tone as with the detachment that singers often adopt when talking about those mysterious little cords in their throats. ''My teacher says there are really no limits - he often encourages me to take on parts that scare the daylights out of me when I open the score.'' Tough Test of Technique  Odabella is just such a role, requiring forceful declamation, delicate coloratura, soft lyricism and a powerful cutting edge to soar over the ensemble in concerted numbers. ''This part tests every facet of a singer's technique,'' Miss Zschau maintains, ''and I can really find no vocal parallel with it in anything I have sung so far. In Puccini, you set your voice for triple forte and let it run, lightening here and there for contrast at the quieter spots. For 'Attila' you have to call on many different techniques, even more than in the later Verdi operas where the soprano writing is softer grained and contains less dramatic coloratura.  ''In fact, I've learned a great deal about my voice from singing Odabella, how to use the right muscles in the throat and diaphragm to achieve the correct musical effect. That first aria is a killer, so forceful and exposed -and right at the beginning of the opera. Shortly after that, though, there is another aria, lyrical and intimate as Odabella mourns her father, killed by Attila, and pines for Foresto, her lover whom she believes is dead. The voice has to move and adjust quickly between these extremes and settle into a middle ground - it can't be too dramatic or too lyric, too dark or too light. I'm trying to find the right groove where it all fits together to work for me, the conductor and the audience.''  The sort of vocal challenges that Miss Zschau faces are basic to all the early Verdi operas, and every role in ''Attila'' has its share of difficulties. For one thing, the music lies consistently in the brilliant upper register of the voice. ''The tessitura, or the over-all vocal compass of the music, is frightfully high,'' the soprano says. ''In his later operas, Verdi placed his tessitura more comfortably for the singers, in a lower part of the voice. I sometimes wonder, at this early stage in his career, whether he was entirely aware of how punishing his vocal writing could be. Of course Verdi gets a powerful effect by constantly using the upper octave, but I have a feeling singers must have come to him at the time and said something along the lines of 'Look, Maestro, these roles are throat killers.' ''  A paradoxical aspect of ''Attila'' is that despite the variety of vocal challenges, the characters themselves remain fairly onedimensional and exhibit only the most primary emotions. ''Love, hate and revenge,'' says Miss Zschau. ''Everything is pared down to the basics and the characters in 'Attila' let it all hang out. Odabella hardly builds at all as a personality over the course of the opera - she is dramatic and violent one minute, then suddenly quiet and introspective the next. Odabella as a Scorpio  ''Everything happens so quickly. In many respects, the libretto is only the skeleton of a plot, and to evolve a character of any emotional consistency, you have to work hard putting flesh on bare bones. Odabella has just two motivations - to take revenge against Attila and to convince Foresto that she still loves him. She is obviously a strong person and a fighter, but she also has a soft side. If I think about her in astrological terms, I suppose she would have to be a Scorpio.''  With a growing reputation as a singer who can take on almost anything written for her range, especially such heavy assignments as Odabella, she is finding herself more and more in demand. Next year Miss Zschau, who was born in Chicago and grew up in North Carolina, will be singing in ''Attila'' at the Vienna State Opera, while this summer she travels to Australia with Joan Sutherland for a production of Meyerbeer's ''Les Huguenots'' in Sydney.  The soprano's next new role at the City Opera, at a date not yet officially set, will be as the heroine of Shostakovich's ''Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk'' -the starker original version of the opera as opposed to the revision the Stalin regime forced the composer to make in the 1950's titled ''Katerina Ismailova.'' Also on the horizon is the ''real'' Lady Macbeth of Verdi's opera, as well as her familiar ''Girl of the Golden West'' with several regional American companies.  ''Some people have been urging me to look at Norma,'' Miss Zschau says doubtfully, ''but I don't want to think about a monumental undertaking like that - yet. I vocalize with Norma's aria 'Casta diva,' when no one can hear me, and that's it for now. At the moment, I feel most comfortable in the high-lying dramatic roles of later Italian operas. There just aren't that many other sopranos around who specialize in this repertory and I guess I'm one of the few. Beverly Sills told me the other day, 'Kid, don't you know you've got it made?' That's the kind of encouragement a singer loves to hear.''  There will be additional performances of ''Attila'' this Sunday night, next Tuesday, next Friday and a matinee performance on Sunday, March 22.  Illustrations: Photo of Marilyn Zschau 
