19830817
Correction Appended Considering the hundreds of Italian restaurants in New York and the wide variety of dishes on their menus, it is surprising to realize that the selection represents only a small percentage of intriguing regional dishes of Italy. While I found on a recent six-week tour that it is more difficult to find excellent meals than it was 15 or 20 years ago, Italy still abounds in traditional specialties rarely if ever seen on menus in the United States. This is especially true of northern Italy, even though we consider that region well represented here. Many of these dishes fit the contemporary preference for lightness and freshness, for natural herb seasonings, for high-carbohydrate foods such as pasta and rice with vegetables and for main courses of fish and veal.  It is, therefore, hard to understand why restaurant owners and chefs feel they have to create the often bizarre and exotic dishes of the nuova cucina, their answer to France's nouvelle cuisine. Too many status-conscious Italian restaurateurs rely for novelty on new cliches such as vegetable p^ate; fish steamed in lettuce; kiwi; pink peppercorns, and gravlax. The international adoption of such foods is leading to menus as boring as those that relied on old status symbols such as fillet of sole bonne femme, tournedos Rossini and veal Cordon Bleu.  No risotto stained with berries compares with such traditional combinations as that luxurious rice preparation brightened with mixed vegetables or zucchini blossoms or fresh seafood. Pasta with sesame oil and ginger may have a place on Japanese and health-food menus, but in Italy it seems more interesting to have a unique specialty such as pizzoccheri, the buckwheat flour fettuccine with Swiss chard, potatoes, onion and cheese.  Fortunately there are some young chefs in Italy who are beginning to realize that traditional dishes long forgotten can seem brand new to both tourists and natives. Some of the best of such new-old trattorie are to be found in Venice and Milan.  As rich as all Italian regions are in forgotten dishes, the areas that seem to hold the greatest treasures suitable for contemporary menus are Umbria and Tuscany, which were reported on last week, and Venetia, Lombardy and Liguria, which follow. Bologna Cordon Bleu is a well-rated, attractive modern restaurant in the Grand Hotel Elite, celebrated primarily for its nuovo cucina specialties. Dinner was just this side of disaster, even though I was with Marcella Hazan, who is well known there and who teaches cooking in Bologna. She did know that the original chef had left in April because, according to the owner, he would no longer do as he was told. If the food we had was an example of what the owner wanted done, that chef left in the nick of time. The antipasto included decent renditions of the standard vegetable salads along with delicious herbed periwinkles and an octopus salad that needed more lemon juice. A sweet- sour lemon risotto seemed fine for two bites, then became cloying. Half- spoiled seafood rendered tagliatelle inedible. Better choices were the passatelli (a sp"atzlelike pasta with bread crumbs in the dough) in a celery sauce, and a puree of white beans with garlic and braised chicory. Beef fillet in a creamy strawberry sauce was awful. Equally poor was the stale sole with pistachios. The veal cutlet Bolognese, a local classic, was extremely salty and a rack of lamb was dry. Dinner for five at the Cordon Bleu was $133, but judging by the menu, we were charged less than full prices because of Mrs. Hazan's presence. Cordon Bleu, Grand Hotel Elite, Via Aurelio Saffi 38, 43-74-17. Notai was somewhat better, although far from excellent. At first glance its outdoor cafe looked inviting; it takes a while to become aware of the mosquitoes hovering around the plants and the disruptive roar of motorcycles whizzing by. The accommodating staff provided well-aged, hand-sliced prosciutto and peeled ripe figs and excellent large tortelloni with ricotta and fresh tomatoes. Strichetti is an interesting local pasta that looks like noodles that have been pinched off in loose, bow-tie shapes. At Notai that pasta was fine but the vegetable sauce over it seemed scorched. A thin slice of salmon steamed with leeks and shrimp in lettuce leaves had good flavor although it was awash in butter sauce. Calf's liver sauteed with onions was stringy. The worst creation here was a salad of shrimp, apples, nuts and raw beef. Fruit was better than the tart of rancid pignoli nuts. Dinner for two came to $50. Notai, Via dei Pignattari 1, 22-86-94. Imola After three visits to Bologna, I have yet to have an exceptional lunch or dinner in a restaurant. That city perhaps has better restaurants, but after an exceptional lunch at San Domenico in nearby Imola, I decided to return for other meals, using up the time allotted for Bologna. San Domenico is in every way a jewel, a series of countrified but stylish and intimate dining rooms with impeccable formal service and exquisite food that combines traditional dishes and flavorings with nuova cucina lightness and invention. The restaurant is in a 15th-century country house in which the owner, Gianluigi Morini, was raised. From the first bite of appetizers through desserts, the food was exceptional. It would be difficult to pick a favorite appetizer. Candidates surely include the crisp string bean and hazelnut salad in a dressing of heavy sweet cream; scallions and lemon juice; the bottarga (pleasantly saline pressed tuna-fish roe much like pressed caviar) with black olives and arugula salad; the silken liver p^ate with truffles, and a meaty terrine of rabbit in a blond white-wine aspic. Pastas have all the depth of flavor one could hope for and at the same time are delicate and original. Garganelli, the freshly made tiny twists of pasta that are a specialty in Emilia-Romagna, here get a bright primavera sauce of fresh vegetables and are as delightful as the miniature, airy green gnocchi adrift in sage-scented cream. Bologna's famed tortellini probably have never been served more elegantly than here, where the meat-filled pasta rounds appear in a gossamer sauce of cream blended with goose liver. Riso mantecato, literally stirred rice, is an outstanding risotto with rivulets of butter and reduced meat stock that gilds the mounds of creamy rice. These appetizers and pastas are hard acts to follow, but main courses stand up well at San Domenico. Pungent green herbs in a white-wine butter sauce brightened poached branzino, a fish much like our own striped bass. Tender fillets of rosemary-perfumed lamb (noci di agnello) were roasted rare as ordered, and red-wine vinegar and lemon combined for a piquant sauce just right for a rare fillet of beef. Roasted pigeon stuffed with duck livers, rabbit meat and herbs was rich but seductive, and a brassy but subtle mustard sauce enlivened roseate veal kidneys. The only dishes not up to the house standards were a breast of duck that was too well done and an overly dry braised breast of guinea hen. All main courses were decked out with beautiful vegetables, some sauteed, others in flans and timbales. Crusty rolls are baked twice a day, just before lunch and dinner. Desserts were as good as other courses. Equally delicious were the coffee bavaroise with an intense espresso coffee sauce; a cassata with candied fruits and wild strawberries that gave new meaning to that Sicilian classic; the bitter-chocolate ice- cream fondant in vanilla sauce, and a charlotte of frozen zabaglione with raspberry sauce. Fruit sherbets were also lovely, as was a midmeal palate refresher of grapefruit sherbet with dry vermouth. Only the constantly banging kitchen door disrupted the elegant tone of the inner dining room. Meals here average about $50 a person without wine. Ristorante San Domenico, Via Gaspare Sacchi 1, 29-000. Venice Osteria da Fiore has been a wine tavern for 100 years and a seafood restaurant owned by the Martine family for the past 25. The young brothers and cousins work together to provide impeccable, dedicated service, exhibiting unbridled respect for the food they present. When I reached for lemon to add to the beautiful grilled razor clams and scallops with roe on the half shell, a waiter said: ''Taste it first. It is seasoned.'' 1 2 3 4 NEXT PAGE > Correction: November 22, 1983, Tuedsay, Late City Final Edition 
