19980106
 World Watch   By Compiled by Paul J. Deveney, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 7, 1998  Malaysians have shifted large sums of money from local banks to foreign banks in recent months amid concerns that the bank down the street could be the latest victim of the nation's economic woes. The flow has slowed somewhat since the central bank issued assurances in recent days that all local bank deposits will be protected, but the effects of the big shift are already rippling through Malaysia's economy. Some manufacturers report that local banks have begun making it much harder for them to obtain working capital, primarily by freezing trade-credit facilities. There is a danger that this could cripple exports, the very sector on which Kuala Lumpur is pinning its hopes for an economic recovery.  Prospects for Hong Kong's property market look bleak this year. Property consultants Brooke Hillier Parker are predicting a 5% to 10% drop in office rents and a 10% to 20% decline in office prices. On the retail side, property prices and rents are set to tumble by as much as 20%. And the company says the residential sector could see prices fall 5% to 15% this year. But there could be a bright side to all this for big corporations: Brooke Hillier Parker says the sharp downturn in the property market could make the former British colony a more attractive place for multinational companies to operate. It sees those lower office and home prices as a great opportunity for multinationals to cut costs.  Thailand is taking an unusual approach to resolve its economic woes. It's giving the boot to workers from neighboring countries to make room for Thais who have lost their jobs because of the worsening economic crisis. Local newspapers reported yesterday that the government plans to send back up to half a million foreign workers annually over the next three years. The move is certain to be seen as less than neighborly; most of those who will be sent home are from Burma, South Asia and Indochina.   
