20030820
 A Global Journal Report -- Life After the Concorde: Slower but Cushier; With Elite Fliers Up for Grabs, Carriers Tout Mega-Comforts; Turning Your Seat Into a Suite   By Melanie Trottman in Dallas and Daniel Michaels in Paris, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 21, 2003  With British Airways' Concorde slated to retire on Oct. 24 and Air France's highest-speed service already history, the pay-anything-to- get-there-fast-and-ritzy set is up for grabs. Carriers are already barraging them with alternatives ranging from private jets to first- class cabins replete with flat beds and walled-off spaces, offering extreme comfort in exchange for longer flights. British Airways will also maintain its upscale Concorde airport lounges in New York and London for first-class passengers, as well as a special services team ready to run errands for travelers and escort them through the check- in process.  British Airways, which is phoning Concorde travelers to prevent defection to other carriers, touts a slightly shorter flat bed of its own and even throws in pajamas and a full-size duvet. Continental Airlines, which flies nonstop betweeen New York and both London and Paris, last year spent $15 million to upgrade its BusinessFirst cabins with plusher seats more comfortable for snoozing (though they don't quite recline to a perfectly flat 180 degrees). Air France dropped its New York-Paris Concorde service earlier this year, but has since added one daily flight to the route. Key selling points: Its expanded schedule lets a passenger boomerang from Paris to New York and back in 24 hours.  Of course, the Concorde is still in the air for about two more months on the New York-London route, but travelers who want a last trip need to move quickly. British Airways hasn't put tickets for the last week on sale yet. As of yesterday, there are about 1,000 seats left between now and then. That's an average of about 16 seats a flight, although some dates are already overbooked. David Grayson, managing director of the New York brokerage firm Auerbach Grayson & Co. and a Concorde regular, says he recently had to be put on a wait list for a seat. "It's very difficult to get on it now," he says. Tickets can be purchased the usual ways, including by logging on to the British Airways Web site, ba.com. A nonrefundable seven-day advance "sale" fare is $9,991 round trip, though some corporate travelers say they have negotiated rates in the $5,000 range.   
