19811214
The Cincinnati Bengals and Dallas Cowboys joined the San Francisco 49ers as divisional champions yesterday. The Bengals (11-4) eliminated the Steelers from playoff contention in the American Conference Central Division with a 17-10 victory, and the Cowboys (12-3) clinched the National Conference East with a 21-10 victory over the Eagles. The 49ers (12-3) had won the title in the National Conference West.  Two other teams, Miami and Buffalo, won yesterday and are assured at least wild-card berths in the American Conference. Following is a rundown on the remaining contenders:  National Confence East: Philadelphia (9-6) can clinch a wild-card berth with a victory at home against St. Louis Sunday or with a loss by Atlanta to Los Angeles tonight. The Giants (8-7), who end their regular season Saturday at home against the Cowboys, can gain a wildcard berth with a victory over Dallas if Philadelphia loses, or, if the Eagles win, with a loss by Green Bay to the Jets Sunday in New York. Washington (7-8) would be eliminated by an Atlanta victory tonight.  National Conference Central: Detroit and Tampa Bay, both 8-7, meet in the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., Sunday for the title. Green Bay is also 8-7 but cannot win the division unless the Lions and Buccaneers tie. The Packers can gain a wild card with a victory over the Jets or a loss by the Giants, provided that Atlanta loses at least one more game. Minnesota (7-8) would be eliminated if Atlanta wins tonight.  National Conference West: Atlanta (7-7) has a chance at a wild-card berth. American Conference East: Miami (10-4-1) and Buffalo (10-5) meet in the Orange Bowl Saturday for the title. If the Jets (9-5-1) beat the Packers, they get a wild-card berth. If they lose, they can still go into the playoffs if the Chargers lose or tie in their game against the Raiders next Monday night.  American Conference Central: No team other than Cincinnati will make the playoffs. American Conference West: Denver (10-5) can clinch the title Sunday with a victory in Chicago. San Diego (9-6) can win the title with a Denver loss and a Charger victory against Oakland. The Chargers would win on the basis of a better record within the division. Either team could qualify for a wild-card berth, but only if the Jets lose. 
