20040705
 Saddam on Trial   By Dershowitz, Alan M, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 6, 2004  After all, [Saddam Hussein] was captured by American soldiers during a war which our commander in chief has said was entirely the Iraqi dictator's fault. Although the war is not yet over, Saddam's capture is among its most significant achievements. The tribunal that is trying him was established by the occupying powers. He stands in the dock, along with other leaders of the former Iraqi government, accused of the most serious crimes, including the mass murder of Kurds and the invasion of Kuwait. He has already hinted at his likely defense: that he remains the lawful president of Iraq and that the court, concocted and controlled by the American occupiers, has no jurisdiction to try him for military actions taken in the legitimate interests of his country.  The first question that must be asked of the Baghdad tribunal is whether, in light of the manner by which it was established, it will have the independence to rule against the interests of the U.S. -- and the current Iraqi government -- if the law requires it to do so. To take an extreme and unlikely scenario, could this court actually acquit Saddam if there were insufficient admissible evidence of his guilt? And if it were to do so, would the U.S. authorities actually permit Saddam's release from their de facto control? Surely the answer to the second question is "no," since we have designated Saddam a prisoner of war as well as a criminal. His POW status authorizes us to continue to detain him until hostilities are over.  As to the first question, the evidence against Saddam, at least as to some of the murder counts, seems so overwhelming and incontestable that outright acquittal on all charges is highly unlikely. But some of the accusations against Saddam, and certainly against other defendants, may well not survive judicial scrutiny. If the investigative judges ultimately decide to include the invasion of Kuwait in the indictment, Saddam's lawyers will have a rhetorical field day comparing his actions to those of President Bush in invading Iraq. The investigative judges would be far better advised to limit the charges to the gassing of the Kurds and other obviously illegal actions that are unique to Saddam and his regime.   
