19820802
BOSTON— All along, the odds have been that the siege would end in the destruction of west Beirut. The inner logic of both sides, the Government of Israel and the leadership of the P.L.O., pushes them toward a military denouement.  The latest Israeli attack brings that end nearer. But even at the last moment all of us should think the problem through once more, as realistically, as unflinchingly as we can. That goes for Americans, Israelis, Palestinians. The interests of all will be profoundly affected by what happens in Beirut.  The logic that pushes the Israeli forces relentlessly onward is now clear. The Government's objective is to obliterate the P.L.O., in not just the military but the political sense. As a Foreign Ministry spokesman put it last week, the P.L.O. ''must first leave Beirut and then disappear politically.'' The theory is that Palestinian nationalism would then be reduced to an ineffectual fringe cause, allowing Israel to absorb the West Bank and treat its Arabs as a permanent subject population.  Some in the Israeli Cabinet have tried to restrain the Defense Minister, Ariel Sharon, in the eight weeks since his forces invaded Lebanon. But he pushed beyond the border zone, engaged the Syrians, invested Beirut. And now the Government's political stake in the war is so high that it must produce results in Beirut, however bloody the cost.  Indeed, the process of destruction is already underway. Israel need not conquer west Beirut house-by-house. It may be able to achieve the same end by bombing and shelling, heedless of the toll among the 500,000 civilians there, and by cutting off food and water. It applied both those measures in the last week.  The world's reaction has hardly been enough to discourage General Sharon. The television images of apartment houses blown apart, the bodies here and there, did not produce the outcry they might have a month or two ago; we grow accustomed to brutality. When the U.N. Security Council demanded that food and water be let through to west Beirut, the American delegate, Jeane Kirkpatrick, did not participate, saying she needed more time to consult on that daring idea.  Israel can do what it wants in Beirut, and its Government is prepared to pay the price it foresees in casualties and public disapproval. But Menachem Begin and Ariel Sharon do not see far ahead; they do not want to.  Those who do, with Israel's interest at heart, will worry about the consequences. The leveling of west Beirut would never be forgotten, by the world or by Israelis. However explained, however obscured by the censors, it would be there in the collective memory. We are not yet so hardened as to ignore the fate of 100,000 children in west Beirut.  The killing of all 6,000 P.L.O. fighters in Beirut would not in fact solve the Palestinian problem for Israel. It would intensify the alienation and the desperation of Palestinians in occupied territories and in Israel itself.  Nor would such an ending resolve Israel's security problem in Lebanon. Despite all they have suffered at the hands of the P.L.O., Lebanese could not be expected to welcome the smashing of their capital. The talk of a united Lebanon making peace with Israel would be even more fatuous than it has been since the invasion: The Moslem majority would more desperately fear domination by the hard men of the Phalange.  The logic of the P.L.O. leadership is the other side of the same coin. Knowing the power of Israel, it sees victory of a kind in holding out against that power - even unto death. Martyrdom, it reasons, would advance the Palestinian cause: arouse Arabs, weaken Israel's support in the world. There is a Palestinian Masada complex.  Willingness to die is in a sense Mr. Arafat's leverage as he negotiates. He spins out the time and the legend as he fools Congressman McCloskey with more imprecisions about accepting Israel, and bargains to obtain political benefits for military resignation.  All of that is understandable. But it is folly as great as General Sharon's delusion of peace by war. The P.L.O. chose the military course, and it lost. It set out first to destroy Israel, and when in practice it moved away from that objective toward a two-state solution it was never explicit or convincing enough to be effective.  Martyrdom will not help Palestinians; to the contrary, it may condemn them to leaderless generations in the wilderness. Bargaining for immediate, unobtainable political concessions will not help; the only useful course open now is to leave Beirut and unequivocally accept Israel - a course that would have its political effect. The time for illusion is past.  Palestinians with a sense of reality know by now that the way to a homeland is the political way, peacefully, with the understanding of the United States. If the P.L.O. leadership does not, history will leave it behind. 
