19811011
I N the theme song from the recent movie ''9 to 5,'' Dolly Parton laments the hours of ''service and devotion'' given a boss who then denies her both the opportunity for a promotion and credit for using her ideas. Whether this scenario represents the real world of the secretary has become the subject of controversy as the perils and potential of that job undergo scrutiny in light of the women's movement and changing technology. The more traditional service magazines, secretarial schools and th e older generation of women executives continue to insist that the se cretarial job is the ideal first rung on the ladder to success for an yone with hardly more than a high-school diploma. But career co unselors, feminist organizations and secretaries themselves have la tely become far more ambivalent and cautious. They suggest that an yone with board-room ambitions has to be extremely careful not to be ''type-cast' ' in the job.  Many of the larger, older companies, they point out, still subscribe to the notion of ''once a secretary, always a secretary.'' One of the most insidious problems, according to Janice Blood, director of public information for Working Women, an eight-year-old organization of 12,000 office workers dedicated to improving the lot and image of the secretary, is the game being played with the name itself.  ''To assuage women's growing sense of entitlement and make employers look good on Equal Employment Opportunity forms,'' she said, ''they now call their secretaries 'administrative assistant' or 'office manager.' But they're still doing the same work at the same salary.''  Mrs. Blood also pointed to a corollary game - to let an executive secretary gradually assume many of the responsibilities and duties of a vice president but still pay her only a secretarial salary and continue to maintain a lower-echelon status for the job. But corporations defend such policies by suggesting that unless secretaries are prepared to go back to school, many will be unqualified for the more specialized or senior positions.  ''In high-tech companies like ours there have to be certain limits because of the lack of technical skills,'' explained Dolores McCallion, director of corporate employee relations and services at Perkin-Elmer Corporation, in Norwalk, Conn.  On the bright side is the fact that, as technology moves into the outer office to take over much of the drudgery, the secretary finds her day devoted increasingly to the more interesting organizational and communications tasks needed to keep that office running efficiently. For this reason, she may prefer to remain a career secretary.  Meanwhile, organizations representing secretaries, such as Professional Secretaries International and Working Women, through workshops and awareness campaigns, are striving to change the image of the secretary.  They are becoming increasingly effective in promoting the idea that secretaries should be viewed neither as mindless ''go-fers'' or as ''girls'' who are marking time rather than as skilled professionals in their own right. Moreover, they call for a greater differential in pay between the beginning typist-secretary and the executive secretary, and for more careful definition of job titles in office assignments.  Like other leaders in the field, Professional Secretaries International believes that a first step is to separate those who look upon secretarial work as a long-term career and those who are interested in the job more as a springboard.  That organization recently negotiated with CBS, for instance, for the opportunity to enter the corporation under one of two different categories - career secretary or progressional secretary. The goal is to make sure that individuals will be considered for advancement more directly in line with their career goals.  Professional Secretaries has also been promoting the greater use of its certification procedure - a two-day examination held each May that tests secretaries in basic skills, behavioral science, business, economics and management, accounting and office procedures. Only 966 candidates of 5,852 who took the test in 1981 were granted a diploma and use of the initials C.P.S., for certified professional secretary. A recent survey by the organization of secretaries who have passed its course found that those with the credential earn an average of $20,700 a year.  Nationwide, secretarial training schools now graduate only twothirds of the secretaries needed to fill 305,000 openings each year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. And the shortage is growing. By 1990 the demand is expected to increase at more than twice the rate for all other occupations. The B.L.S. suggests that shortages will be likely because need is increasing just at the time when women, who still make up 98 percent of the secretarial force - male secretaries have increased almost 25 percent in the last decade - are moving into other occupations.  ''The need for secretaries will be tremendous because the rise in office paperwork, especially in growing fields like finance, insurance, real estate and health servies, will continue,'' said Bruce Richardson, a market analyst with the Yankee Group, Boston consultants. ''There is a serious shortage of secretaries today because fewer women are entering the field. Many women who might have become secretaries 20 years ago are going into other fields because of increased opportunities and the women's movement.''  Eleanor Vreeland , the acting president of t he Katharine Gibbs School, who started out as a secretary hersel f, says demand is now sointense that she has at least two jobs availa ble for each of her graduating ''young ladies.'' Starting salarie s for graduates average $12,500, rising to $15,000 for anyone who has completed the school's new course in word processors. Most incoming students are white 19-y ear-old women with at least a high school diploma.  Leaders in the secretarial field insist that almost all the problems that plague life in the outer office stem from a stubborn and lingering male chauvinism. The reason such abuse continues, said Elise Maclay, founder of BIZ, a quarterly magazine dedicated to improving the awareness and skills of the executive secretary, is that many of them are ''far too apologetic.''  ''They'll even say, 'I'm only a secretary,' '' she said. ''And they immediately blame themselves for anything that goes wrong.'' When Working Women polled its membership on what type of business was most likely to offer a secretary an opportunity for advancement, the answer was the smaller companies, especially manufacturing concerns and those growing at an accelerated pace.  Corporate personnel officials emphasize that overt ambition is not a deterrent to first being hired as a secretary. ''In a company like ours,'' said Rose Johnson, an interviewer at the American Can Company in Greenwich, Conn., ''we have so many people leaving for so many reasons I never even worry. In fact, we find most people are eager to tell us their career goals even if we do not ask.''  William J. Morin, president of Drake Beam Morin, a New York firm of career counselors, suggests that continued education is the answer for advancement in most cases, coupled with taking a position in a business with a good track record of promotional policies.  Mrs. Maclay suggests that a shortcut to advancement is to take on a task the boss does not have time to do adequately - such as preparing the company newsletter or leading orientation sessions for new employees. Ideally, it should be ''something he hates to do himself.'' Before long, Mrs. Maclay said, the side job will become the main one. 
