19860217
Robert V. Callahan is not your typical union boss.  Mr. Callahan, the president of the local that represents Eastern Air Lines flight attendants, consults a 2,500-year-old book on Chinese warfare for bargaining strategies, holds news conferences in English and Spanish and was a historian before he became a steward.  ''He's one of the most knowledgeable union leaders the flight attendants have ever had,'' said Rowana Wolf, chairman of the union's Newark chapter.  Colleagues say the soft-spoken Mr. Callahan will need all the academic acumen he can muster to meet the union's most severe challenge.  On Feb. 4, 1,010 of Eastern's 7,200 flight attendants were laid off as part of a new contract that management imposed on Jan. 23. The new pact also cut flight attendants' wages by 20 percent, increased their work hours and required them to substitute on other jobs.  The cost-cutting measures are intended to help the financially troubled carrier avoid default on $2.5 billion in debt by the end of February.  ''Callahan and the company are in an impossible situation,'' said Brian M. Freeman, a financial consultant who advises labor unions.  Eastern and the union are discussing a plan for senior attendants to take six-month, unpaid leaves of absence. That would allow the laid-off junior attendants, who rely more on the wages, to continue working. Mr. Callahan says that Eastern could save $1.5 million more a week through leaves than layoffs.  ''These have to be the most difficult negotiations I've ever been through,'' said Mr. Callahan, 40, who was elected to a three-year term in 1984. He joined the airline as a steward in 1972 and was president from 1976 to 1980.  Despite the layoffs, Mr. Callahan has steadfastly refused to call a strike, which the union could legally do.  ''Had we been forced into a strike, stockholders and directors would have sided with management,'' Mr. Callahan said in a telephone interview from the union's headquarters in Miami. ''By refusing, it puts the pressure back on management to avoid default and bargain fairly and collectively.''  A former history instructor at George Washington University, Mr. Callahan said he is counting on history to repeat itself by the end of the month.  ''The history at Eastern has been that no matter the tension or the issue, we've always managed to work it out,'' he said.  Such confidence and trust are Callahan trademarks, colleagues say.  ''If I had to name a weakness of his, it's that he's perhaps far too trusting,'' said R. David Butler, Mr. Callahan's administrative assistant. ''But he's become much more political, much to his chagrin.''  A native of Uniondale, L.I., Mr. Callahan earned a political science degree from Wesleyan University and is a doctoral candidate at George Washington University.  He is married to an Eastern flight attendant. 
