19810520
At 1 A.M. yesterday, the Atlanta Hawks received the telephone call they had been waiting for. Kevin Loughery, the former coach of the New Jersey Nets, informed Mike Gearon, the Hawks' president, that he had decided to accept the job as Atlanta coach, a post he was offered a month ago.  The formal contract signing will take place in about one week when Larry Fleisher, who represents Loughery, returns from Acapulco, Mexico, where the National Basketball Players Association is holding its annual meeting. Fleisher is the group's general counsel.  Loughery has verbally agreed to a three-year contract. There has also been talk the contract may include an offseason television job with Ted Turner, the Hawks' owner, who owns WTBS in Atlanta. Loughery was a commentator during the recent playoffs. 'Gets Into Your Blood'  ''Basketball has been my livelihood for 19 years, '' Loughery said yesterday by telephone from his home in Upper Saddle River, N.J. ''It's something that gets into your blood. It's only when you have been away from it, no matter how short a time, that you realize how much you miss it.''  This is the second time Loughery has had to uproot his family in five years. When the Nets moved from Long Island to New Jersey, Loughery sold his home in Huntington. Now, the family, which includes his wife, Sheila, and two teen-age sons, will have to move to Atlanta.  ''Accepting the Hawk job had to be a family decision,'' said Loughery, ''and not an easy one. There was family, friend and the kid's schooling to consider. We still are not settled when we will be moving. I might even have to commute for a year or so.'' Third Coaching Job  The Hawks are Loughery's third coaching job. After 10 seasons as a player with the Detroit Pistons, Baltimore Bullets and Philadelphia 76ers, he coached the 76ers in 1972-73 for the final 32 games of their 9-73 season.  The following season he became the coach of the New York Nets of the American Basketball Association and led them to two championships. By the time the Nets joined the N.B.A. for the 1976-77 season, Roy Boe, then the owner, had sold or traded most of top players, including Julius Erving.  Loughery remained with the Nets until last Dec. 22 when he abruptly resigned after philosophical differences with Joe Taub, the principal owner. He had two and a half years remaining on a five-year contract and will continue to receive money from the Nets for the length of the contract. The Nets had a 12-23 mark when he left.  Loughery, the Hawks' fifth coach since the franchise moved from St. Louis to Atlanta for the 1968-69 season, replaces Hubie Brown, who became involved in a dispute with the management and was dismissed at the end of the season. The Hawks, after winning the Central Division championship in 1979-80, suffered through a rash of injuries and finished at 31-51.  ---- Knicks Seek Solutions  Sonny Werblin, president of Madison Square Garden Corporation; Jack Krumpe, the executive vice president; Mike Burke, president of the Knicks; General Manager Eddie Donovan and Coach Red Holzman met yesterday for what was described as a get-together ''to pick up the pieces and see where we're going.''  The Knicks, after winning 50 games during the regular season, were eliminated from the opening round of the playoffs by the Chicago Bulls in consecutive games.  ''I'm interested in getting Mitch Kupchak,'' said Werblin before the meeting. Kupchak, a 6-foot-11-inch strong forward who played five seasons with the Washington Bullets, is one of the most coveted free agents. The guessing is the Knicks will make him the best monetary offer, and the Bullets, rather than lose him and receive nothing in return, will match the offer under the right of first refusal. 
