20010320
 Japan: What Went Wrong   By By Michael E. Porter, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 21, 2001  Consider the U.S. situation in the late 1980s, with the savings-and-loan question, defense downsizing, a real-estate bust, weaknesses in corporate quality and efficiency, and a huge budget deficit. Self-corrective mechanisms took over, with competition and financial-market pressure stimulating rapid and vigorous adjustment. The U.S. entered a recession in July 1990 but was growing again by April 1991. The government's role was modest, and focused on facilitating restructuring and streamlining regulation. Japan, in contrast, has delayed or avoided reforms, making adjustment slow and painful.  Could Japan's difficulties hurt the U.S.? A growing Japan would certainly help, but Japan's malaise is unlikely to have a large negative impact. Japan has been depressed for a decade, and a significant decline in the appetite for critically needed U.S. goods and services such as information technology, pharmaceuticals and financial services is unlikely. Japan accounts for only about 9% of U.S. exports, and exports to Japan in recent years have been stable or growing. Some Japanese portfolio capital invested in the U.S. financial markets might be withdrawn to strengthen domestic balance sheets, but net flows of capital from Japan are modest and there is no obviously better place to put it. On the corporate side, Japanese companies, if anything, are likely to be growing investors in the U.S. to access technology and diversify out of the slow-growth Japanese market.  While the threat is modest, Japan represents a large opportunity for U.S. companies and investors. As reform and restructuring proceed, even if slowly, acquisitions, private-equity opportunities, and the ability to enter formerly restricted markets should proliferate. U.S. investors are already involved in workouts of distressed loan portfolios, and early results are encouraging. Overall U.S. corporate investment in Japan has been growing rapidly.   
