19811106
CAIRO, Nov. 5— At the end of a recent interview, Egypt's new President, Hosni Mubarak, said, after a long discussion on foreign relations, that his primary task was to tackle this impoverished nation's intricate internal problems.  Chief among these problems is Egypt's always-precarious economic condition, and there can be no discussion of Egypt's economy that is divorced from the country's politics.  ''Economics follows politics, not the other way round,'' Dr. Suleiman Nureddin, Minister of State for the Economy, said the other day. Dr. Nureddin was referring, among other things, to Egypt's elaborate program of subsidies for basic foodstuffs and commodities -such essentials as tea, rice, sugar, cooking fuel and bread.  For a number of years, organizations such as the International Monetary Fund have criticized Egypt's leaders for the country's heavy investment in such subsidies, because precious investment capital is used for consumption. But the subsidies program was, and is, a mainstay of the Government's policy and the memories of the food riots and deaths that resulted from reductions in the subsidies in 1977 are still vivid here.  Emphasis on Continuity  Since assuming power after Mr. Sadat's assassination on Oct. 6, Mr. Mubarak has emphasized that he wants continuity and stability. It is highly unlikely that the new Egyptian leader will tamper with the subsidies program, which accounts for more than half of the real income of poor Egyptians.  So far, Mr. Mubarak has said little about his plans for the economy, which has gone from worse to bad in the past few years, mainly because of revenues reaped from American aid, Suez Canal Authority fees, tourism, remittances from the two million Egyptians working abroad and the sale of finite oil reserves.  Dr. Nureddin feels, as do many economists who have studied Egypt's precarious fiscal state, that some more durable underpinnings are needed, primarily industrial development.  ''We could not go for long depending on Suez Canal, tourism and workers' remittances,'' he said, adding that tourism, at least temporarily, has slumped because of the assassination and the fears of vacationers of further strife. Oil Glut Affects Sales  In addition, the projections for oil sales this year are suffering because of the oil glut on the world market. ''That is why the strengthening of what we call the physical sector of production, mainly agriculture and industry, is a must,'' Dr. Nureddin said.  One of Mr. Sadat's most sought and least realized attempts to strengthen the economy was his ''open-door'' policy, in which foreign investment, primarily American, was to find a suitable market in Egypt.  Described recently by one State Department official as a ''mighty trickle,'' the policy has been modest at best, in part because of Egypt's stultifying bureaucracy and red tape, and in part because of American investors' fears about the volatility of the Middle East.  Mr. Mubarak said in his inaugural address that he would continue to pursue and enhance the policy. Last Sunday, he met with a group of 50 leading American businessmen and said, ''We are determined to continue our open-door policy in order to stimulate foreign investment.'' 'Willing to Listen Carefully'  Then he chided the Americans, saying, ''To be candid, we expected American investors to be more responsive and forthcoming.'' He continued: ''We liberalized our laws and introduced more efficiency in our investment agencies, and expected you to do more to help us, to increase productivity. We attach great importance to areas related to the transfer of technology. We are willing to listen carefully to any remarks or complaints you might have. It is important for us to better our ever-growing partnership for our mutual interests.''  Dr. Nureddin said that the President has instructed his economic advisers to expedite the approval of a number of industrial projects that are jammed in bureaucratic pipelines by a variety of Government agencies.  Mr. Mubarak is to deliver a major address to the nation this Sunday, and the economy and the need to increase efficiency and production are expected to figure prominently in it.  Egypt will receive some $2.5 billion in foreign aid this year, about half of it from the United States. The funds are desperately needed for sewage projects, for housing, for water supplies and for telephone systems that work.  The country is also increasing imports of food supplies to feed a growing population of 43 million, more than half of them under 15 years of age.  Officials have been unable to keep accurate count of the extent of food imports, which Dr. Nureddin described as growing at an alarming rate as urban Egyptians develop a taste for red meat and other foodstuffs not indigenous to the over-farmed agricultural areas of the Nile delta.  The younger population also poses an economic problem for the new President as he and his advisers look ahead toward developing new job markets.  For years, Egypt has had a policy of finding a Government post for every university graduate who has been unable to find a position in the private sector. This has led to trained personnel being assigned to the bureaucratic labyrinth to perform - or not perform -tasks totally unrelated to their training. Waiters With Degrees  In the last few years, those unable to find jobs in the private sector have been on a Government waiting list, which some see as a way of ending the guaranteed job policy through attrition. A graduate who has to wait three years for a Government post must find another job and the hotels here, for example, are filled with waiters with university degrees.  Some of the graduates join the emigration to the oil-rich countries where the pay is higher and Egyptian skills are in demand. This exodus helps the economy in terms of remittances - nearly $3 billion a year is sent to Egypt by Egyptians working elsewhere - but in the long run it may hurt the nation because some of its most skilled and highly trained talent has left.  In addition, Mr. Mubarak has to worry about jobs for those without university training - the thousands and thousands of Egyptians who desert the countryside for a hoped-for better life in the city. This has transformed Cairo and Alexandria into teeming, unmanageable clusters of unskilled job seekers. Subculture of 'Fat Cats'  Some here are wondering if the President's speech on Sunday will deal with a small class of nouveaux riches - called ''ottat suman,'' or literally, ''fat cats,'' who have made fortunes from the open-door policy.  Many of them are conspicious consumers and are envied and disliked by the ''have nots'' who so outnumber them. They are the subculture in Cairo who can afford to visit the luxury shops that have sprung up to serve them and to negotiate the streets in expensive cars. They are also frequently able to have the rules bent in their favor and, with the right ''baksheesh,'' or ''tip,'' placed in the right place, they are able to overcome some of the regulations that cut into profits.  Mr. Mubarak is known here as a man untainted by rumors or gossip of self-enrichment. His reputation is that of a rather rigid, strict man with a military upbringing, impatient with those who skirt the rules. Whether he is able to curb the excesses of the ''ottat suman'' is not known. But if he is, it would doubtlessly enhance his popularity with those Egyptians who work two jobs and still barely make ends meet.  Illustrations: photo of Hosni Mubarak 
