19820320
ANN ARBOR, Mich.— These are difficult times for the University of Michigan, a flagship of the country's public institutions. It raised itself to international prominence on the money and energy of a booming industrial economy, but its fortunes are now being shaken by the downturn that grips the state and the region.  When the latest uproar broke out recently over Michigan's high property taxes, the entire faculty of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at the University of Michigan received forms to apply for jobs at a big Southern university with the invitation to move south where the weather is warm and the taxes are low.  And when it was announced in early March that two programs in the university's catalogue were up for a budget review, an overly eager local real estate agent wrote the staff of each that since they would be leaving town soon, would they like him to list their houses?  The engineers stayed in the Middle Western slush and the real estate agent apologized. But the stories are making the rounds on campus here with the shrugs and thin smiles of people who know that anything that close to the bone is not always funny.  Now the Word Is Retrenchment  Instead of the growth that marked wealthy public institutions like the Michigan after World War II, now it is retrenchment, and the talk is of raising the guard against decline.  ''You can't demonstrate yet that the university has declined seriously if at all,'' said Billy K. Frye, vice president for academic affairs and the principal budgetary power on campus. ''But there are warning signs, and they are warning signs that apply to all public universities these days except for those that are sitting on a pool of oil.''  Some of the warnings are these:  - The university is losing its competitive edge in faculty salaries in most fields.  - Recruiting top-notch new faculty members and attracting graduate students are being hampered by misgivings among potential teachers and students about the future of Michigan's economy.  - New hiring of faculty members has slowed sharply, creating an older, more heavily tenured teaching staff, larger classes and an increased workload for graduate teaching assistants.  - Some programs have begun to be cut. Competition for Students Rises  As Dr. Frye pointed out, most mature public universities are suffering similar pains of finding new directions. Student interests are shifting, there has been an explosion of knowledge in technical fields and competition for qualified students is intensifying as the population of college age declines.  But this university is also suffering special money problems as the state's budget shrinks because of the industrial economy's long recession.  ''The old quote 'As G.M. goes so goes the world' is true in spades for this university,'' said James J. Duderstadt, dean of engineering. ''When the going was good the taxes from those auto companies built one of the premier public education systems in the country here, and now that times are hard that support isn't there. Now those taxes are going to pay the unemployment insurance of all their laid-off workers.''  As a result, the state's share of the university budget, once better than 30 percent, has been shrinking and is now $153.15 million, or 21 percent of the university's total 1981-82 budget of $729.3 million. The state's 1980-81 appropriation of $146.43 million was $7.2 million less than the previous year's state allocation, the first time in a decade that state financing for the university declined in dollar amount.  To help close the gap, tuition charges have been sharply raised. State residents paid $660 a year in 1972, for example, and $1,616 this year.  Tuition charges for out-of-state students, who make up better than a quarter of total enrollment, rose over the same period to $4,868 a year from $2,140, but higher tuition, already near the top among public universities, has not brought enough new money to maintain the university on its accustomed scale.  To deal with these challenges, the university will soon embark on a difficult retrenching effort, directed by Dr. Frye. It will seek to cut $20 million out of all university spending and to concentrate the savings in certain areas where the need is ''urgent,'' notably faculty salaries; improve support for graduate students; spur research programs and begin some long-delayed physical improvements on campus.  The university recently announced that three additional programs, the schools of art, of education and of natural resources, were up for review ''for possible budget reductions'' under the retrenchement program.  The aim, as Harold T. Shapiro, the president of the university, has put it, is to become ''smaller but better.'' Or as Dr. Frye put it negatively, ''unless we become smaller, we we cannot sustain, much less improve, our present level of excellence.'' 'Ought to Be Doing This'  In an interview, Dr. Frye expanded on this. ''It's important to understand that any unversity ought to be doing this all the time,'' he said, ''but we've been in the habit of growth for so long it's kind of painful to realize that from now on, new growth is going to be at the cost of something else.''  But down in the glistening spring thaw of the Old Quad the idea of smaller but better is an uneasy concept for students who always thought bigger meant best. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
