19810820
It's the worst-kept secret in Washington. Next year's Federal budget deficit, officially estimated by the White House at $42 billion, is almost certain to exceed $60 billion. That's hardly cause for panic. By historical standards, a deficit equal to about 2 percent of national income is quite modest. But it does make clear that the President's program is no free lunch. After gorging on all those tasty tax cuts, the Administration, and the public, may pay dearly for the main course.  Candidate Reagan promised to cut taxes, increase defense spending, cool off inflation and reduce the Federal deficit. Lower tax rates, the candidate asserted, would lead to so much investment and productive effort that tax revenues would go up. That, plus a good whack at wasteful Government spending programs, would allow the Pentagon to rebuild the arsenal and still leave enough cash to balance the budget.  President Reagan got his tax cut, and then some. Personal tax rates will go down by 25 percent over the next three years, business tax rates even more. The President also slowed spending. Thanks to sharp cuts in a number of nondefense programs, next year's expenditures should go up about $35 billion less than they would have.  Why, then, the $60 billion-plus deficit? The tax cuts, the President carped last week, were a bit more than he asked for, while the spending cuts were a bit less. But that is an excuse, not an explanation. The tax cut should, just as he maintains, encourage investment and work effort. But only true believers now argue that it will actually increase tax revenues. And with the economy now apparently sliding toward recession, there is every reason to believe that revenues will slide with it.  Then, too, there is the question of record-high interest rates. Mr. Reagan's economists hoped that enactment of the President's fiscal package would lower inflationary expectations in the financial markets, and thus lower interest rates. But Wall Street expectations are still stratospheric, and so are the rates the Treasury will have to pay in extra billions in interest on the Federal debt.  And things are likely to get worse before they get better. The tax cut will cost the Treasury about $38 billion in 1982. By 1984, the projected revenue loss could be as high as $150 billion. Meanwhile, in that same year, the President's proposed defense buildup would cost tens of billions more. The way out, Mr. Reagan's advisors now say quietly, is to cut the budget by another $30 or $40 billion next year, and the next. That certainly would mesh with the President's wish to reduce the size of Government. But it would require serious sacrifices by somebody. And to judge by this year's cuts, that somebody is apt to come from a low-income family and be dependent on Federal social programs like food stamps and welfare.  The point is not that President Reagan is trying to score easy political points with an economic policy he knows cannot work. Nor is it that he wishes to harm to the poor. But it is becoming increasingly unlikely that his policy can succeed without punishing the poor. At very least, the President owes us an explanation of who will pay if and when the lunch check does arrive. 
