19810904
The hard nose is a much-prized appendage among football players, Pentagon thinkers and political candidates. It is valued by Reaganites at par with cowboy boots. Jimmy Carter's lack of granite nostrils may have been his undoing, and no one may hope to be a conservative columnist without smearing concrete over his sinuses.  Still, a hard nose occasionally proves more valuable to a linebacker than a President. What, for a good current example, has President Reagan gained by his support - barely mitigated by faint disapproving clucks from the State Department - of the hard-nosed South African military expedition into Angola?  If anything, Mr. Reagan has curried a bit of favor with the racist Government of South Africa and perhaps underpinned somewhat the hefty and strategically important American trade with that powderkeg country. He apparently believes also that he has shored up the anti-Communist position in southern Africa and may be able now to persuade Pretoria finally to go along with an independent Namibia.  Baloney (which apparently can't be smelled through a hard nose). What popularity Mr. Reagan may have gained among the Afrikaners is as nothing compared to the split he caused among the Western allies and the mistrust he earned in important third-world countries - Nigeria, for example. He lined himself up with a tiny white minority trying to keep the lid on a vast, seething black majority and handed the Russians, as if on a platter, the opportunity to champion that majority (although they may well be too clumsy to exploit it effectively).  Cuban, Soviet and East German forces and technicians in Angola will be more, not less likely to dig in there - and the Angolans to embrace them - as American-backed South African attacks continue. And they s urely w ill, as long as Mr. Reagan keeps his eyes closed above his hard nose . So the fighting across the Angolan-Namibian border will go on an d cold-war confrontation in southern Africa will become more, not les s dangerous to the rest of the world.  The South African Government - in the opinion of those who know a real hard nose when they see one - has no intention whatever of permitting an independent Namibia if it is to be ruled by a government formed by the South-West Africa People's Organization, known as Swapo, which Pretoria regards as a Communist puppet. That intransigence will only be strengthened by President Reagan's refusal to con-demn it and by his support for military attacks into Angola in pursuit of Swapo guerrillas.  Yet, as modern history clearly shows, tanks and helicopters can no more defeat a political movement like that in Namibia than they couldin what used to be Rhodesia - now peaceful Zi mbabwe, governed by black former guerrillas who used also to be d enounced by South Africaas Moscow's stooges. Mr. Reagan has only mana ged to heighten East-West confrontation, prolong a dangerous guerrilla war and put the United States on the wrong side of it.  To take another example here at home, the President's hard-nosed response to the air controllers' strike seemed clearly justified at first; but it's beginning to look relentless. Air travelers could suffer from this attitude, along with the former controllers; in some cases they already have.  Mr. Reagan probably had no real choice but to respond as he did to an illegal strike; and the union appears to have walked into its present plight with an unerring instinct for self-destruction. So the controllers have no one to blame but themselves and their leaders - although Mr. Reagan's campaign pledges, in return for their support, may well have misled them about his real intentions.  Now, however, the strikers have been fired, the union has been broken, and the President's point has been made. But air-traffic control continues to be questionable, despite Government pledges; the Government always said nuclear power was safe, too. And even the Government concedes that it will be perhaps two years before airtraffic control reaches its pre-strike effectiveness.  In the meantime, passenger safety may be jeopardized, more than passengers can know; and passenger convenience, as any frequent traveler can testify, is sharply down - shriveled service, canceled flights, crowded terminals and planes, uncertain departures and arrivals. And the longer this lasts, the less likely it is that marginal flights and routes abandoned during the strike will ever be restored.  Any but the most steely nose might sense, therefore, that now is the time to offer some of the former controllers the opportunity to return to their jobs on the terms they rejected - but their leaders had accepted - when the strike began. The number would be determined by the goal of re-establishing pre-strike effectiveness in quick but orderly fashion. That would neither surrender principle nor revive the union but it would serve the public, which is what air controllers and Presidents are supposed to do. 
