19810920
-------------------------------------------------------------------- Douglas Edwards is a longtime correspondent for CBS News. By DOUGLAS EDWARDS  It was around midnight, London time, in the closing days of World War II in the spring of 1945. The scene: the overseas broadcast studio of the British Broadcasting Corporation. I was preparing to do a two-minute report for CBS on the network's early evening feature, ''The World Today,'' which would be carried live by s hortwave to New York, when in he walked, cla d in war correspondent's uniform. He extended his hand and said, ''Hello, I'm Lowell Thomas.'' I knew his name about as wel l as I knew my own and had since I was 13 years old.  Thomas was at the BBC to send back a report to NBC and I was thrilled to meet him. I had listened to his news broadcast from the time we got our first Philco tabletop radio, had admired him, even tried to pattern my early broadcasting style after his. I told him how I got permission from my mother to remove the mouthpiece from the old fashioned telephone in our home in Troy, Ala., to make it look like a microphone as I practiced news broadcasting, reading from whatever newspapers I could get my hands on at the time. He listened intently and never forgot it, apparently. Every time I saw him after that, he always referred to it and had something kind to say about mymother. I sup pose a lot of other broadcasters got some of their earlyinspiration f rom Lowell Thomas. He was truly the ''granddaddy'' of usall, and his death earlier this month marked the end of an era.  In the very beginning of network newscasting, in 1930, there had been Floyd Gibbons, a colorful reporter who wore a patch over one eye, had a machine-gun delivery and, according to his successor, Lowell Thomas, a fondness for John Barleycorn with a tendency to get himself in an ''overserved'' condition.  Gibbons's sponsor, The Literary Digest, was looking for a replacement. William S. Paley, the head of CBS, a man blessed with great presence and good taste, decided he might have the perfect answer in a young lecturer, author and man about the world named Lowell Thomas. The contact was made and ''the best brains'' CBS could muster were called in to prepare, as Mr. Paley described it, ''a masterpiece'' for the Thomas trial broadcast.  That roster included a friend of Thomas's, Jesse Butcher, a veteran New York Times newsman; George Elliman of Doubleday; Ogden Nash, a young manuscript reader who also wrote verses, and Dale Carnegie, who made a fortune writing and teaching how to win friends and influence people. Thomas also brought in Prosper Buranelli, star feature writer on The New York World, who was to remain with Lowell as his top writer for the rest of his life.  Thomas said he and Buranelli actually did most of the preparation for the broadcast, which was a resounding success and resulted in the longest run of any daily, sponsored program in the history of radio. That first report contained a few items of real news, but it was made up for the most part of the feature stories that became the Lowell Thomas trademark. (Thomas spent two years at CBS, then moved to NBC. He returned to CBS in 1946 and stayed on for 30 years.)  At the end of his first year on the air, Thomas wrote an article for The Pictorial Review telling of his adjustment to the radio medium. He had tried to break the habit of gesturing grandly as he had on the lecture platform. He had shortened the long pauses used for dramatic effect on the podium -useful in front of an audience, dead air on the microphone. He discovered that profanity, acceptable in poetry and prose, was verboten on the air and he got letters to prove it.  He learned that many in his audience, which he estimated at one million that first year, found it distasteful to hear stories about an Arizona miner who has ordered and eaten a broiled and coiled rattlesnake, particularly as his broadcast in many areas came at the dinner hour. Thomas also wrote that he had learned to steer clear of stories about disease because ''they seemed to have a neurotic effect on sick people and some of the faithful and attentive listeners are in hospitals.'' He enjoyed telling stories he called monstrous, shameless ''whoppers'' for the purpose of getting a laugh.  Lowell Thomas got many a laugh throughout his career and some of them came as he laughed at himself. Buranelli was a master at writing in Thomas's choppy rhythm, and often the newscaster read portions of his copy cold, without a prior glance. Often those stories contained slyly suggestive material and on many occasions triggered the famous Lowell Thomas ''breakups,'' gradually building bursts of laughter that rendered him speechless. Inevitably, Thomas's announcers were left to do the closing commercial, themselves fighting paroxysms of giggles. One of them, Hugh James, who did commercials for the Sun Oil Company for many years, described the experience as a little like ''laughing in church'' but said the audience and the sponsor loved it. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
