19820224
DAWN didn't crack one recent frigid Saturday - it peeped briefly through the clouds and went back to bed. The dozen bird watchers huddled on Long Island's easternmost tip were not so lazy. Up since 5:45 A.M., they continued to scan the frigid Atlantic from their windswept perch at the foot of the Montauk Point lighthouse.  ''No one has ever really proved that there are more birds here at dawn,'' said the birders' leader, Robert O. Paxton. ''It's just that Puritan feeling that if you get up early, your virtue will be rewarded.''  And rewarded it was, though only at the very last moment. As the shivering birders folded up their telescopes and began to file toward a more promising observation point, a numb straggler at the end of the column cast a last backward glance. So hard was it for him to believe his eyes that it took a minute for him to holler, ''harlequins!''  Nearby, bobbing on the dark waves as they crashed against the rocky shore, was a pair of adult male harlequin ducks - a species whose riotous coloring makes it as striking as, on the East Coast, it is rare. Then, while the birders, for several of whom this was a firstever sighting, gazed raptly, the sun rose for good and gilded the ducks' chestnut flanks, blue-gray heads and unlikely white daubings.  Bird watching in winter is not for the weak-kneed. Although you're on your feet most of the time, it's a sedentary pastime. The physical exertion of other winter sports combats the cold, but the best insulation provided by L.L. Bean and Eddie Bauer springs leaks when you're standing stock still and staring out to sea or over a frostcovered field.  And it won't do to wait for a warm spell. Unfortunately, explained Dr. Paxton, who, during his spare time, is chairman of the Columbia University history department and the author of several books about France under the Nazi occupation, ''If the weather's good for people, it's not very good for birds.'' Indeed, the birders who departed from New York City for Long Island that day had high hopes because they were driving smack into the path of a snowstorm that might force oceangoing birds closer to shore and thus within view.  Birders brave the cold because abstinence makes the heart grow fonder. It's hard to pursue an obsession for three seasons of the year only to put it on the inactive list during the fourth. ''If I've gone two weeks without birding,'' said Lois Gebhardt, a nursing supervisor at Presbyterian Hospital who joined in the Montauk expedition, ''I start to itch.''  Although there are fewer birds to be seen in winter, even the sight of familiar ones - two red-tailed hawks, for instance, hovering over a stubbly hill with their splayed wingtips curled up like eyelashes as they twitch their tails to maintain their motionlessness - can be inspiring when conditions are so inhospitable.  And winter drives southward other birds that farthest reaches of Maine and Canada. Some birders skulk about the piers of Manhattan - the West 40's, West 12th Street and around East 60th are favorite spots - to espy an ivory, glaucous or Iceland gull, rarities that breed in the Arctic and are distinguishable from our regular resident gulls by their white backs.  Others scour the dunes of Jones Beach and Riis Park for a snowy owl or a flock of snow buntings, two species that nest in the summer on the Arctic tundra. Staten Island's rocky southeastern shore is prime territory for purple sandpipers, and the Jamaica Bay Wildlife Preserve for ''winter finches'' - crossbills, redpolls, pine grosbeaks and purple finches that summer in northern spruce forests - as well as for saw-whet owls. (To locate these last, Lois Gebhardt suggests ''asking every birder there and looking in the hollies and junipers.'')  Farther afield but highly recommended is the southern fork of Long Island, to which members of New York City's Linnaean Society, a 104-year-old group of expert ornithologists and amateur birders, ventured over Presidents' Weekend. Here is where, among other birds, the greatest number of ducks from the Far North can most easily be seen, though biting wind and snow can make your eyes tear as you peer through binoculars or a scope.  The society's caravan of cars made its first stop at noon on Saturday at Shinnecock Bay, south of the town of Hampton Bays. But the pickings were slim along the jetty there - only a handful of demure scaup and female red-breasted mergansers. ''I don't think I've ever seen that much water that empty,'' Dr. Paxton observed before the group returned to its automobiles and thermoses of coffee and juice.  At Montauk later that afternoon, however, and on the following day (the party lodged at two local motels), 15 species of ducks were spotted. Beginning birders and intermediates learned the fine points of differentiating among three kinds of scoters, dark chunky ducks that float with the utmost aplomb on the roughest shoal waters.  And the rafts of scoters were sprinkled with mergansers, their rakish crests ruffled by the stiff wind. One merganser was more than just ruffled -through their telescopes, several birders saw it seized by the neck and throttled to death by a great black-backed gull. Since gulls' bills are ill-adapted to piercing and tearing flesh, they usually swallow their food whole; this gull's picking on something nearly its own size, which it could not conceivably cram down its throat, was extremely anomalous behavior.  The rarest sight of the weekend were the harlequins, but the most spectacular occurred on the way back to New York during a detour to Sagaponack, L.I., where more than 2,500 Canada geese (so their number was ''guestimated'') and a hundred or so American widgeons (a kind of puddle duck slightly smaller than a mallard) were feasting in a field.  Presumably dispatched by a farmer anxious to save his winter wheat, two teen-agers raced out atop an off-road vehicle, as those motordriven tricycles with fat wheels are called. Geese darkened the sky in a tumultuous swirl of V's within V's, and to their honks of alarm the widgeons added a descant of whistles. When many of them landed in a nearby inlet, they (and the bird watchers in hot pursuit) sent two startled swans slipping and sliding 50 feet or so across the ice at the inlet's rim before they could get enough traction to heave themselves into the air.  By then, after nine nearly nonstop hours, the birders were beginning to lose their fight against fatigue and the chill. As the sun set they called it a day and headed homeward. But dedicated winter birders never say die. Lois Gebhardt, for one, was already wondering what she might find at Jamaica Bay the next morning.  Illustrations: photo of Robert O. Paxton (page C16) photo of Linnaean Society members 
