19811225
WASHINGTON, Dec. 24— In his new set of economic actions against the Polish Government and warnings to the Soviet Union, President Reagan has walked a middle ground between West European hesitancy and restraint and right-wing domestic pressures for a tougher stand on the crackdown in Poland.  Although his comments were sharp, especially in putting the Soviet Union on notice that, unless the Polish repression is eased, the Kremlin itself will face ''concrete political and economic measures,'' Mr. Reagan's Christmas message was as notable for what he did not do as for what he did.  The President, who has built up a strong anti-Communist image in his political career, did not plunge hastily into calling off Soviet-American talks on nuclear arsenals in Europe or American participation in the East-West conference on European security in Madrid, as some Western European leaders had feared. Nor did he announce a halt to all American credits for Poland or cancel next month's meeting of the Soviet and American foreign ministers.  Room Left for Harsher Measures  The steps he outlined represented a measured increase of American pressures on Poland, following up his earlier suspension of future economic aid to the Polish Government. They also left room for harsher measures to come if what one high official called ''the military junta'' in Warsaw does not relax its repression and free some labor leaders.  The cancellation of Polish airline and fishing rights in the American domain and Export-Import Bank insurance for business deals will tighten the Polish economic pinch somewhat, but they do not impinge dramatically on the central concerns of a crippled economy.  In short, these measures were more symbolic than substantive, more psychological than immediately punitive in their impact. They reflect the United States' urge to take some action to emphasize its outrage and its refusal to acquiesce in the crackdown without getting out of step with its allies, should the repression continue and the stakes rise. Need for Close Consultation  As one official said on Wednesday, Washington feels the need both to lead the way for the Western allies with its measures, hoping some will follow suit, and to work in close consultation with them to emphasize Western solidarity, and that means not getting too far out front.  The West Germans, in particular, have been reluctant to take dramatic steps, asserting that this was no time for overreaction. And the Canadian Government has declined even to follow Mr. Reagan's earlier examples of suspending government food aid, contending that Canada will have better leverage on Poland by continuing aid than suspending it.  But the Reagan Administration's view, as officials explain it, is that the West must provide moral support to the continuing Polish resistance and must make clear the rising long-term economic cost of the crackdown.  In American eyes, time is an ally of the workers and the West, and there is still a chance that economic realities will eventually force Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski to compromise with the Solidarity trade union if wider bloodshed or Soviet intervention does not destroy that possibility. Domestic Pressures a Factor  Then, too, the Administration has felt increasing domestic pressures to take harsher reprisals against both the Polish and Soviet governments. Right-wing Republican allies like Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina have been calling for an end to Soviet-American arms control talks and grain sales to the Soviet Union. Both liberal and conservative Democrats have also urged more vigorous action than the President took.  On Tuesday, five Democratic Senators, including Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and Bill Bradley of New Jersey, sent the President a letter urging a total ban on trade with Poland and the Soviet Union and an embargo on American technology for use in construction of the new gas pipeline between the Soviet Union and Western Europe. Lane Kirkland, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has been calling for similar steps.  Temporarily, the President may have appeased this sentiment with his accusations of Soviet complicity in the Polish crackdown and the disclosure of his letter to Leonid I. Brezhnev putting the Soviet Union on notice that, as officials said, unless there was remedial action in Poland in ''a short and finite'' period, the United States would take measures against the Soviet Union. Haig Favors Graduated Response  Even so, policy-makers like Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. seem to favor a graduated increase of pressures. They talk of tighter restrictions on Western technology sales or the withholding of export licenses. But they have been in no rush to call off arms talks, which they put in ''a special category'' that is ''unique in character and significance.''  By putting the Soviet Union on notice before imposing reprisals, they have given the Russians time to head off a worse showdown and allowed the President some leeway as well.  In short, this conservative Administration continues to strike a delicate balance between inaction and overreaction to events in Poland, tacitly acknowledging the limits of American power to influence events in the short run but hoping to persuade its allies by example that together the West can have some impact in the longer run.  As a conservative President who criticized his predecessor for weakness and vacillation toward the Russians, Mr. Reagan has so far moved with relative moderation. 
