19820520
An inmate, in jail for automobile theft, used jail telephones to pose as a Saudi sheik and obtain an advance of $43,500 from a New York City bank and a $25,000 loan from an official of the International Monetary Fund.  The inmate, Ali Kouhestanian, whom one of his victims called a ''Brooks Brothers kind of guy,'' was convicted May 10 of mail fraud, wire fraud and conspiracy. He faces up to 20 years in prison at his sentencing in Federal District Court on June 21. His lawyer said he would appeal the conviction.  Officials said Mr. Kouhestanian, an Iranian immigrant who is in his middle to late 20's, got the $43,500 from the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company last summer while he was an inmate at the Billerica (Mass.) House of Correction.  After he was moved to New York for trial, he again used jail telephones to pose as the same sheik and obtain a $25,000 personal loan from Jan-Maarten Zegers of the I.M.F.  An assistant United States Attorney, Kate Pressman, said the prisoner called 14 New York banks and several Government agencies in Washington, getting no further than the switchboard most of the time. But at Morgan Guaranty, she said, ''he hit pay dirt.''  Posing as Abdul Aziz Qurayshi, the head of Saudi Arabia's central bank, Mr. Kouhestanian reached Robert V. Lindsay, president of the Morgan bank. He told Mr. Lindsay that his nephew was in jail in Massachusetts and needed money, and that the bank should get in touch with his nephew's friend, Natalie Dodson.  Mr. Lindsay, a brother of John V. Lindsay, the former New York City Mayor, did not know that Miss Dodson, a 30-year-old resident of Boston, was helping Mr. Kouhestanian place long-distance calls by using a conference-call device on her home phone.  When the Morgan reached her, she said Mr. Kouhestanian needed $14,000 to pay taxes on his house and $4,000 for a lawyer. Reached in Billerica, Mr. Kouhestanian said he was the sheik's nephew and needed the money.  After the $18,000 had been sent, Mr. Kouhestanian called the Morgan to ask for $25,500 for taxes on his ''other house.'' It was sent to Miss Dodson.  Meanwhile, in Saudi Arabia, the real sheik had received notice of the payments and had expressed dismay. The bank recovered its second payment, but the first had been spent on a Mercedes, lawyers' fees and Miss Dodson's telephone bill. Because the Billerica jail only had charge-call phones available for prisoners, Mr. Kouhestanian called Miss Dodson collect and had her forward his calls. She was convicted of wire fraud and faces up to five years in prison, Miss Pressman said.  After his scheme was discovered, Mr. Kouhestanian was moved to the Manhattan Correctional Center in November to await his fraud trial. There, he called Mr. Zegers at the United Nations with the same story - Saudi sheik, nephew in jail needs money.  Mr. Zegers, who had met the real sheik, said he never suspected anything. ''Concern for members of an extended family is normal in the Middle East,'' he said.  After seeing Mr. Kouhestanian in court, Mr. Zegers, who recovered his $25,000 check, said, ''He's tall, dark, poised - a very elegant Brooks Brothers kind of guy.''  Miss Pressman said Mr. Kouhestanian came to the United States on a student visa in 1977. He later was arrested for auto theft and sent to Billerica. 
