19810331
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va.— World oil consumption peaked during 1978-79 at around 60 million barrels per day and should decline to some 20 million barrels a day during the 1990's. This statement flies in the face of accepted wisdom, which still talks of an increasing world demand, of supply shortages, and of a long-term and worsening oil crisis beginning in 1983 - that was Jimmy Carter's date - or a little later.  Any major drop in oil demand would produce a revolution in the world oil market comparable to the price jump of 1973-74. To grasp the domestic and foreign implications of such a revolution, one should understand the basis for the ex-pected decrease in oil demand.  The driving force is economics. The price of oil has become so high that cheaper alternatives, such as coal and nuclear energy, are displacing oil for generating heat and steam. This use of oil is the predominant one throughout the world, although not in the United States, where transportation is more important.  This switch to coal and nuclear energy is already evident in other industrialized countries, and as world use of heavy fuel oil declines, refineries are upgrading their processes to make more gasoline and diesel fuel. Another important technology is the development of coal-and-water mixtures that can replace heavy fuel oil directly in existing oil-fired boilers at about half the cost.  Around the world, residential and commercial users of light fuel oil are also switching to cheaper substitutes, principally to natural gas, but also to electricity, geothermal heat, and solar energy. Energy conservation has not yet reached its limits, and substantial savings can still be expected, as a result of the present high price of energy.  On the supply side, the oil-price increase of 1979 has not yet made its full impact. But it is safe to assume that, as exploration drilling on private and public lands increases, production levels in North America will hardly decline over the next 10 to 20 years. Most likely, the Western Hemisphere will become essentially independent of imported oil by the end of the 1980's. The United States will become an exporter of energy fuels, principally coal. And the Middle East will become a less-interesting place.  What are the implications of this scenario? When oil demand decreases drastically, then world production must decrease accordingly. But whose production would be cut? Neither Canada nor Mexico is going to shut down oil wells, nor are North Sea wells going to be abandoned. Clearly, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries must take a cut, and Persian Gulf production could drop all the way to zero. If OPEC really cuts production, then the world oil price may stabilize near its present value, or lower (in real dollars). But if OPEC members insisted on producing, they would have to cut prices in order to sell their oil. At this stage, the United States and other industrialized countries might adopt import quotas or tariffs in order to protect domestic energy investments. Very likely, Mexican and Canadian oil would be given special consideration, at the expense of overseas oil. In any case, the United States' trade balance would improve and OPEC's oil income would drop drastically.  The domestic implications are also far-reaching: Oil prices would be more-or-less stable (except for inflation adjustments), subject to short-term fluctuations based on supply conditions.  There would be a shake-out of many oil refineries, with upgraded, high-technology refineries surviving. Establishment of a synthetic-fuels industry would be deferred, with Government help going only to a few crucial demonstration projects.  As a result of reduced dependence on foreign oil, the Federal strategic petroleum reserve could be more modest. We would become nearly self-sufficient, with domestic and other North American oil supplying most of our needs. As a result, our foreign policy would become less constrained.  And what about doomsday prophets who have been predicting an imminent oil crisis? A crisis will certainly occur - but for OPEC rather than for consuming countries. --------------------------------------------------------------------- S. Fred Singer, professor of environmental sciences at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, is a member of the Energy Policy Studies Center there. He has served as a consultant on oil economics and security for the Energy and Treasury Departments. 
