19811017
JERUSALEM, Oct. 16— Moshe Dayan, the Israeli soldier-statesman, died of a heart ailment today in Tel Aviv's Sheba Medical Center. He was 66 years old.  Mr. Dayan was rushed to the medical center around midnight last night, complaining of chest pains and shortness of breath. A former Chief of Staff, Defense Minister and Foreign Minister, he was an architect of Israel's victories in the 1967 and 1973 wars as well as the Camp David accords that led to the peace treaty with Egypt.  He resigned as Foreign Minister in October 1979, citing differences with Prime Minister Menachem Begin over policy toward the Palestinian Arabs in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.  Headed His Own Party  Mr. Dayan headed his own political party, called Telem, in last June's elections, but it won only two seats. Despite the absence of a power base, he continued to make his voice heard on the major issues facing Israel, especially relations with the Arabs.  His health had been poor in recent years. In June 1979, he had a malignant tumor removed from his colon and part of his intestine, then underwent chemotherapy and radiation treatment, according to friends. His appearance deteriorated markedly; he grew drawn and frail. Some who saw him recently noticed that the vision in his one good eye seemed to be failing.  The Israeli radio and television reported that his condition in the hospital deteriorated this afternoon, with respiratory problems and loss of blood pressure. His death this evening was attributed by a Government official to a heart attack. ---- Soldier and Diplomat By ERIC PACE  Moshe Dayan was a general who made war, a diplomat who made peace and a political figure who stirred repeated controversy in his homeland.  Although single-minded in his passionate Israeli nationalism, he was a complicated man in other ways. His complexity was mirrored in his disparate features: the long youthful face, the forceful mouth, the distinctive high cheekbones and the famous, tough-looking eyepatch.  Those striking features, the delight of cartoonists and cameramen, became known around the world during Mr. Dayan's long and varied career in the service of Israel.  Mr. Dayan was vulnerable physically, almost frail, a short man, continually beset by ailments. He admitted to being hard of hearing. Old wounds caused him pain. Sometimes he wore a back brace. 'I Need a Completely New Body'  ''I need a completely new body,'' he wearily told an interviewer in 1978. ''I need parts replacing, the whole thing. My eye, my back.'' His military career started in 1939, when he joined a Jewish militia force. Later, as Chief of Staff, he emerged a hero in the 1956 war with Egypt. As a military planner, he was instrumental in the strategy that enabled Israel to capture vast areas in the 1967 war.  But, as Defense Minister, he was severely criticized for Israel's setbacks in the first days of the Arab attack in October 1973. Then, as Foreign Minister, he played a key role in negotiations that led to the signing of the Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty. Mr. Dayan's devotion to Israel was reflected in his private life. He built up a vast collection of Holy Land antiquities that nourished his near-mystic sense of Israel's past. His writings, notably his autobiography and a book about archeology, ''Living With the Bible,'' were in part hymns to his country. 'Always Landing on His Feet'  Like other world leaders, Mr. Dayan was sometimes criticized and sometimes out of favor. But he was a remarkably resilient man who seemed blessed by good fortune. Prime Minister Golda Meir called him ''altogether too lucky.'' An Israeli writer, Amos Elon, noted that he was ''always landing on his feet.''  Though Mr. Dayan was by and large a hero to the Israeli people, he was generally a loner. Mr. Elon called him ''this gloomy, lonely, gifted man - too cunning, too admired, too hated, too ambiguous, too glamorous, too extravagant, too famous.''  He crowned the achievements of his long public career, in the eyes of some, by helping to overcome lingering barriers to the peace agreement with Egypt.  Deeply involved in the treaty negotiations since the beginning in October 1978, Mr. Dayan met with Prime Minister Begin in Jerusalem on the evening of March 12, 1979, when agreement seemed unlikely, and he urged that a last attempt be made to work out a compromise with the Egyptian position. A Crucial Time in Jerusalem  It was a crucial moment. President Carter was in Jerusalem, preparing to leave for home the next morning without having resolved the obstacles to peace.  Mr. Dayan then met with Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance and suggested some approaches that made the Secretary feel further peacemaking efforts might be justified. Mr. Dayan was also on hand the next morning, with Prime Minister Begin and President Carter, when additional discussions were held about a compromise involving the question of Israeli access to oil from Sinai fields and other issues.  Within 24 hours, Israel and Egypt had agreed to the treaty terms. Quit the Labor Party in 1977 1 2 3 NEXT PAGE > 
