20010813
 Deals & Deal Makers: How Cypress Group Stumbled in the Buyout-Fund Derby   By By Amber Holst and Kara Scannell, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 14, 2001  Formed in 1994 by two high-profile Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. merchant bankers, Cypress has struggled from the onset. Its first fund, the $1 billion Cypress Merchant Banking Partners, has generated an annualized loss of 17% from its inception in 1996 through March of this year, according to investors -- a figure that Cypress itself won't confirm. The firm says that since it hasn't taken profit from its investments and hasn't marked up the value of its positions, it doesn't have annualized calculations. That puts the fund in the bottom half of buyout returns for funds formed in 1996, as calculated by Venture Economics, a unit of Thomson Financial. Its second fund, Cypress Merchant Banking Partners II, with about a quarter of its $2.5 billion invested, is too young to value, though it already has lost nearly $100 million on an investment in a now-defunct online grocer.  With the pedigree of Cypress's founders, the current challenges are a surprise. Messrs. [James A. Stern], 50 years old, and [James L. Singleton], 45, chalked up an impressive 38% annualized return for the $1.2 billion private-equity fund they co-managed for Lehman, which achieved knockout returns on investments in Infinity Broadcasting Corp. and auto-parts firm Lear Corp. Of the 13 investments they made at Lehman, only one lost money, according to people at the company familiar with their performance.  Cypress is a long way from that kind of success. Among its 10 deals, Cypress put $210 million into a nursing-home chain that also subsequently sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy-court protection; $200 million into a copier-leasing firm whose stock plunged from $12.13 to less than $1; and sunk $100 million for control of HomeRuns.com, which played third fiddle to Webvan and Peapod in the money-losing grocery-delivery business and said earlier this year it would shut down.   
