19810531
For Victor Herbert fans, it is that time of year again - the Bel Canto opera's annual June revival of a Herbert operetta. This year's offering is ''Princess Pat,'' which receives four performances at the Senator Wagner Junior High School auditorium this weekend, the latest in a series of fascinating Herbert resuscitations that began in 1976 with ''Babette'' and has continued with ''Sweethearts'' in 1977, ''The Red Mill'' in 1978 and 1979, and last year's ''The Debutante.''  What has made these revivals special and quite distinct from productions of other Herbert operettas in recent years is the loving care taken to reproduce the authentic period flavor of each work. The scores have been thoroughly researched to include every musical number, even songs cut during the show's first out-of-town tryouts; the original orchestrations are used to recreate the unique sound of Herbert's instrumentation; and the staging attempts to recapture all the wit, humor and optimistic naivete that is so much a part of these operettas' nostalgic charm. True, the books have been rewritten in large part in order to make the dialogue more palatable to contemporary sensibilities, but even here care is taken not to violate the essential spirit of the shows.  The moving force behind the Bel Canto Herbert revival is Frederick S. Roffman, a New York composer, conductor and authority on early American musical theater. Mr. Roffman's labors of love on behalf of Herbert are virtually one-man operations. He prepares the scores with the diligence of a music scholar working on a medieval manuscript, he rewrites the book in accordance with the original plot, he coaches the singers, devises the staging and conducts the performances. His devotion to the cause of Victor Herbert is total - every year on Feb. 1, the day of Herbert's birth, Mr. Roffman's friends will always find a Happy Birthday card to Victor in their mailboxes.  Should any misguided individual ever speak condescendingly of Herbert and his music, Mr. Roffman is quick to defend the composer. ''He was unquestionably the leading figure in American music before World War I,'' Mr. Roffman points out. ''He wrote the first successful American operas, 'Natoma' and 'Madeleine,' both of which should be revived. His concert music, the cello concertos especially, still stand up well today. He was a well-known conductor. Each of his many operettas was eagerly anticipated. He was the mentor for the next generation of Broadway composers like Friml, Kern and Gershwin. Everybody sang his songs, from shopgirls to opera stars. He helped found ASCAP (American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers) and to establish the copyright law. In our time, the only real analogy is Leonard Bernstein, a household name all over the country.''  The heart of Herbert is still to be found in his 40-odd operettas, and even though the most popular tunes have never lost their hold on the public's affections, the shows themselves gradually disappeared from view after his death in 1924. Occasionally one or two would resurface, but usually in such bowdlerized, overinflated and unstylish versions that their original shape, sound and content became virtually unrecognizable. Mr. Roffman obviously feels that the time is ripe to rediscover the authentic performing traditions, and ''Princess Pat'' is his latest effort to demonstrate how effective Herbert can still be when presented on his own terms.  This particular operetta dates from 1915, and it was one of the composer's big hits - 158 performances on Broadway (a considerable run in those days) and two years on the road. The plot is a contemporary one about the daughter of a Senator weekending on an estate in Southampton, Long Island, where she indulges in all sorts of amorous intrigues to regain the affections of her husband, an impecunious Italian prince.  Like last year's revival, ''The Debutante,'' ''Princess Pat'' is not so much in the European Romantic vein of earlier Herbert successes as ''Sweethearts'' and ''Naughty Marietta,'' but a score that makes use of the ragtime and foxtrot strains that were prevalent in American popular music at the time. It is a leaner, less florid and more initmate type of musical that anticipates the style of ''No, No, Nanette.'' Many of the tunes will be familiar - ''The Neapolitan Love Song,'' ''All for You,'' ''Love Is the Best of All'' and ''I Wish I Were an Island in an Ocean of Girls.'' The latter song was originally sung by the obligatory dialect comedian, a role created by Al Shean, later of Gallagher and Shean fame.  With ''Princess Pat,'' Mr. Roffman has followed the same procedure he has adopted in preparing all his Herbert revivals. First he checks to see if the original orchestral parts are available. Next, he investigates the script to make sure it is one that he can at least work around - ''I'd love to do 'The Singing Girl,' one of Herbert's most gorgeous scores,'' he says, ''but it possibly has the worst book in the history of American musical theater.'' The show is then cast and Mr. Roffman writes a new script designed to utilize the specific talents of his performers. Care is taken not to introduce slang or idiomatic expressions that might seem anachronistic to the period. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
