20010603
 At This Biennale, Video Art Rules   By By Ed Ward, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 4, 2001  The show this time sprawls over four venues: the Postfuhramt on Oranienburger Strasse; the Kunst Werke in Auguststrasse a block and a half away; in some railroad arches near the Jannowitzbrucke station; and in the Allianz Insurance building in the Treptow district. Stick to the two main venues. The Allianz pieces are dull, except for Claude Leveque's dark, metal-lined room, periodically exploding with a loud sound and a very bright light, which is merely uninteresting. And good luck finding the Jannowitzbrucke rooms: I wandered around the station, only to find an office with a sign posted on the door reading "We don't know where the exhibition is" in German and English. It's actually down the road, hidden, but not worth finding -- although Carlos Amorales's "We in Flames" piece, featuring a guy in a devil suit dancing while a DJ spins cheesy Latin music and onlookers are encouraged to shake pieces of plastic fruit like maracas, has its charms.  The Moorish Postfuhramt still has its seedy, decaying interior, and I don't think the city has yet figured out what it's going to do with it, but it remains a fine venue for large-scale exhibitions. You enter into a round space, in which Patricia Piccinini's "Truck Babies" installation sits. A pink truck and a blue truck, with plastic buttocks behind the cabs where the trailers should be, are surrounded by monitors on which giggling Japanese teenage girls recite traffic-safety slogans. Upstairs, in the main rotunda, a large wooden structure by Alicia Framis declares itself a "Minibar (Just for Women Only)," and, given that its entry requirement is brusquely enforced, I can't tell you about it. Fiona Tan's "Tuareg," shown in two adjoining rooms, is a video loop of some Tuareg kids posing for a picture, with two different soundtracks, the image in each room the mirror image of that in the other; it's charming and, most refreshingly, unpretentious.   
