20071202
 The Morning Brief: Finding a Successor To the Kyoto Protocol Online edition  By Schuman, Joseph, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 3, 2007  A key misconception about the subprime mortgage crisis is that it's only about riskier borrowers and not those with good credit, The Wall Street Journal reports. A Journal analysis of "more than $2.5 trillion in subprime loans made since 2000 shows that as the number of subprime loans mushroomed, an increasing proportion of them went to people with credit scores high enough to often qualify for conventional loans with far better terms," the paper reports. And "the numbers could have dramatic implications for how banks and U.S. regulators address the meltdown in subprime loans." As the subprime mortgage loans have increasingly gone into default -- with hundreds of thousands expected to follow -- [Bush] administration and the major financial institutions reeling from the fallout have been working on a plan to freeze interest rates of such loans, many of which are set to rise high and risk more defaults. In what the Journal sees as "a sign that the housing crunch is increasingly resonating on the campaign trail," Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Hillary Clinton is expected today to call for a 90-day moratorium on home foreclosures, which is among the ideas the Bush administration is considering.  How should investors make decisions in light of all the subprime-related uncertainty? The Journal says the nature of the securitized bad mortgages and their proliferation across global finances -- "murky, hard-to-price debt instruments for which there is little or no demand" -- make it hard to figure out how deep the problems go. "There's liquidity and buyers, but the complexity of what they're buying is so massive, the derivatives so complex -- and since no regulatory intervention is telling banks to dump it and clean up their balance sheets -- that you have serious indigestion," Thomas J. Barrack Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of Colony Capital, tells the Journal. The bottom line, the paper says, is that "if you think it is time to start bottom fishing, be prepared to ride it to deeper bottoms."  "The vote affirmed the main idea: that Vladimir Putin is the national leader, that the people support his course, and this course will continue," Boris Gryzlov, Russian parliamentary speaker and leader of President Putin's United Russia party, said hours after the party swept 70% of the seats in the new Duma, giving Mr. Putin the power to change the Russian constitution at will even after he quits the presidency next spring. Goran Lennmarker, president of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe's parliamentary assembly, said it was "not a fair election," as the Associated Press reports, while the Bush administration called for an inquiry into voting irregularities and Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov called the election "the most irresponsible and dirty" in the post- Soviet era.   
