19820510
Somebody Else's War  D uring the two weeks when the British fleet was steaming toward the Falkland Islands and their Argentine occupiers, the public's attitude in Washington included a willingness to tell mild jokes and show a certain Gilbert and Sullivan bemusement at an event set to such a World War I pace. There seemed an almost sepia tone to somebody else's crisis, and Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr.even had time for tennis during his run at shuttle diplomacy.  When the battle was finally joined in the appallingly swift and deadly exchange of exploded warships, the American capital's mood reached shock, but then dwindled quietly, almost mysteriously. Lately, the noninvolvement is palpable. Congress is getting little in the way of constituent reaction. A generation once involved nightly with films of the guns and helicopters of Vietnam finds the censored television news of this war distant. Front-page interest in the perpetual Federal budget fight has been rekindled, as if it was a distraction from somebody else's crisis that has become somebody else's war.  Stag Party Backlash  T he Washington women's network is alive and well. United in spirit and dedicated to exchanging bits of intelligence about their lot, the unofficial sisterhood of working women in the capital lately is passing the word about what's called the ''N.R.C. stag bash,'' a retirement party for an administrator at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  Angry word of the party, which had only male guests except for an entertainment appearance by a female agency worker clad in shorts and tank top, was passed on through the network, then confirmed through a female worker at a suburban Maryland restaurant by Sheila Hershow, associate editor of Federal Times, the newspaper that keeps an eye on the bureaucracy.  Miss Hershow dug into the event and pronounced it ''raunchy,'' finding that an agency pamphlet on sexual harassment was portrayed as a party joke, and viewing as particularly distasteful the cake baked in the shape of ''a well endowed female torso.''  The N.R.C. has no official comment to offer, though there are private cautions against misconstruing and overreacting to a simple party. However, Jim Thomas, head of the employees union at the commission, said the story reflected some of the saddest evidence yet of how the agency has resisted change and maintained a maledominated attitude and hierarchy.  After Miss Hershow found that the party had taken place in working hours, participants stressed they were using personal leave time to partake. They also insisted that the affair came nowhere near the crudities of a true stag party. A ''roast'' but not a ''smoker,'' was the metaphysical distinction offered by one participant. Miss Hershow's final commentary was to imagine a similar workday party for whites only, featuring watermelon and an appearance by a black worker doing a bit of Stepin Fetchit entertainment. ''Imagine the effect on agency morale,'' she wrote, ''And imagine the consequences.'' Barbecue for Staubach  R oger Staubach, the former football quarterback and continuing Texas hero, may have renounced immediate ambitions to run for the United States Senate, but he is still considered a hot political property. Cabinet members, legislators and ranking political financiers inside Texas and outside are responding to invitations to a ''Ya'll Come Texas Barbecue'' later this month. Mr. Staubach will be honored along with his former coach, Tom Landry of the Dallas Cowboys, and he will speak on ''the relevancy of Jesus Christ in personal and professional life.'' No Rescue Plans  D r. Glenn W. Geelhoed, associate professor of surgery at George Washington University Medical Center, describes his working address as ''2150 Pennsylvania Avenue, the nuclear hypocenter between the White House and the Pentagon.''  ''We're talking about a crater,'' says Dr. Geelhoed, vividly summarizing his professional station in the event that nuclear weapons rain on Washington. The physician, who is also chairman of the medical advisory committee for the American Red Cross, will be speaking extensively in this hypothetical mode tomorrow when an expected 1,300 physicians and others gather for a symposium at the university on the medical consequences of nuclear war, one of a national series sponsored by Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Council for a Livable World Education Fund. The doctors will starkly warn Washington to expect to find no medical treatment after the bomb.  ''I want everyone to know they should not be planning on my rescuing them,'' Dr. Geelhoed says quite simply. ''The only resolution is prevention; that's the strongest possible message that can come from this.'' Francis X. Clines Lynn Rosellini  Illustrations: drawing 
