19820304
THE pair of copywriters-turned-ad moguls arrived very early yesterday morning at the spanking new Madison Avenue offices of D'Arcy-MacManus & Masius, a worldwide operation with more than $1 billion in billings. There was much to do.  The bigger man, who is also the younger, was H.G. Bay Jr., 44 years old and known to the advertising crowd in Detroit as Hal. He capped a meteoric rise at the agency by becoming president and chief executive on Jan. 1.  With him - returning to the city where he first made his mark in the business - was Alvin Hampel, 54, the new chairman and head man of the New York operation. Mr. Hampel, who follows a series of unsuccessful head men, has his job cut out for him.  Despite the tint of the facade of the former home of Abercrombie & Fitch, things are not rosy in the New York office. Some good clients, yes, but very little growth. Right in the middle of the world's advertising hub and only billing about $80 million.  In the short time he has been at the helm, having replaced James B. Orth@wein of the St. Louis office, Hal Bay has also restructured the board and its executive committee and brought in William Young from Kenyon & Eckhardt to be president of the San Francisco office.  ''There was turmoil at the top, because of the various mergers and acquisitions,'' Mr. Bay said. ''My job is to calm that down and get people to work together. Everybody's working toward the same goal now.''  But as far as New York goes, he said, ''This has been one of our least successful offices.'' He ticked off the major mergers that went into making the office of today: D'Arcy Advertising and MacManus, John and Adams, then Masius Wynne-Williams in 1972 and, in 1980, deGar@mo Inc.  The priorities for the whole company now, he said, are to be more aggressive about new business (''I don't just want any new business; I want the best'') and to improve the product of the agency - its advertising.  For that job in New York, he has in Al Hampel a man with the right credentials - copy chief at Young & Rubicam, executive creative director of Benton & Bowles, both in New York, and executive creative director at Foote, Cone & Belding, Chicago.  ''After running three creative departments,'' Mr. Hampel said, ''I want to spread myself across the board ad influence an entire agency.''  He will be on the parent company's board, along with four other creative types, three of whom were put there by the new chief executive.  You could tell that Mr. Hampel has been doing his homework, because he was quick to note some of the better campaigns from New York's team -Thomas's English muffins from CPC International, Harvey's Bristol Cream from Heublein; Milky Way from Mars, and True cigarettes from Lorillard.  Elsewhere, D'Arcy people are working on such well-known products and services as Budweiser, Cadillac and Pontiac, Whirlpool, Red Lobster, Amoco and the American Dairy Association.  ''Generally,'' Mr. Bay said, ''we are a very large, financially sound ad agency that gets its financial soundness from the Midwest. We haven't gone out after the big business. But we do have longstanding relationships with the clients we do have.  ''It's time to wake up the sleeping giant.'' At another point he said, ''We are a rock-solid company that does good solid stuff that works.'' Mr. Bay said that he intended to spend about half of his time in New York and one of the problem areas he intended to investigate - one that does not exist in offices elsewhere - was employee turnover.  ''It's not based on salaries,'' he said. ''It probably is people at the lower level who can't see where the company is going and it confuses them and worries them.''  Illustrations: Photo of H.G. Bay Jr. 
