19810817
The sluggishness of the economy may last longer than the few months that President Reagan has forecast, according to leading economists. They warn that sustained high interest rates and the specter of continuing deficits in the Federal budget could retard economic recovery for a much longer period. They also say that currently economic indicators might be decewptive. (D1.)  The world's leading industrial nations appear to be recovering from the 1980 recession, the Conference Board said. But it cited a slackening of economic activity in the United States, which it attributed to high interest rates, and in France. (D2.) Companies  John Muir & Company, brokers, will cease to do business today under an agreement with the New York Stock Exchange. Muir said its liquidity position made the move ''prudent,'' but it emphasized that it believed it had the assets necessary to wind up its affairs. (D1.)  Commuter airlines have been hurt by the air controllers' strike, and aviation industry analysts expect some small carriers to fold. The nation's 290 commuter airlines have lost 35 percent of their normal revenues since the strike began. (D1.)  Garfinckel's board rejected Allied Stores' takeover offer of $48 a share as inadequate during a meeting on Saturday. Garfinckel's board also said it would seek other suitors and might even sell off parts of the famous chain, which includes Brooks Brothers. (D4.)  Steel company profits are recovering, but industry officials are still gloomy about further gains. While the steel industry has earmarked $5 billion for new investment in plant and equipment, its leaders insist they will need more tax incentives than those recently granted to become fully competitive. (D1.)  Self magazine has beaten the survival odds against new magazines since its debut in 1979 as Conde Nast's first new venture in the field in 40 years. With a circulation above one million, Self has apparently filled a need among working women. (D1.) Today's Columns  Presidential advisers are reviewing the pipeline to bring Alaskan natural gas to the West Coast and Middle West. They say the 2,400-mile line will require huge public subsidies as part of its $22 billion in financing, and such Government assistance would raise possibly insoluble political problems. Washington Watch (D2.)  Foreign currency futures remain a market backwater after a decade of floating exchange rates. One reason is that big companies still depend on their banks to handle their hedging. Another is that the dollar has tended to move in long-term, one-way trends, discouraging traders who seek two-way markets. Commodities. (D7.) 
