19820705
TOKYO, July 4— Charges that two of Japan's largest computer companies conspired to buy secrets stolen from the International Business Machines Corporation have produced deep embarrassment here, along with suspicion of United States motives and some soul-searching concerning the relative technological strengths of Japanese and American business.  In Japan, where major companies are viewed as symbols of national honor, the United States charges against Hitachi Ltd. and the Mitsubishi Electric Corporation have provoked a public outcry.  The impression left, said Asahi, a leading Japanese newspaper, is that the nation's computer companies are ''falling over themselves'' to get I.B.M. information and ''are spending huge sums in the process.'' It is, the newpaper added in an editorial, ''a rather distasteful scene.''  As the English-language Japan Times saw it, ''the I.B.M. affair has indisputably cast a shadow of disgrace on Japanese technology as a whole.''  In keeping with accepted Japanese practice in such cases, Katsushige Mita, the president of Hitachi, and Nihachiro Katayama, the president of Mitsubishi Electric, made public apologies for their companies' involvement in the affair. Hitachi, for its part, did admit that its employees paid $546,000 for trade data, but the company said the employees did not know that the information was stolen, and neither company has admitted any illegal activity. As part of the explanatory phase on what happened, Yasukichi Hatano, the head of Hitachi's computer division, diagrammed the route to Glenmar Associates, a West Coast consulting concern that turned out to be a cover for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Though it apologized, Hitachi has said it will not urge its nine employees who are charged in the case and who are now in Japan to travel to the United States to stand trial.  Both Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric have stopped advertising in newspapers and magazines - where they often advertise large electronics items such as computers - although they have continued to advertise consumer products on television and radio.  In another reaction to the case, the companies' stock prices have been battered in Tokyo trading. Hitachi's price, for example, ended trading Friday at 567 yen, down 16 percent from its quote of 675 yen on June 22, the day the charges were announced. Objections to Undercover Agents  The aspect of the case that is most controversial in Japan is the use of undercover F.B.I. agents. In Japan, undercover investigations are used only in narcotics cases. ''The Japanese think that the tactics used in this case were 'dirty' and that this reflects anti-Japanese feeling,'' said Kinko Sato, a Tokyo attorney and former prosecutor in the Justice Ministry.  Many articles in the Japanese press have maintained that I.B.M.'s cooperation with the F.B.I. was a concerted effort on the part of ''America Inc.'' to force Japanese computer manufacturers out of the United States market.  One press account, quoting unnamed ''reliable Japanese sources,'' asserted that the whole F.B.I. operation was specifically aimed at entrapping Kisaburo Nakazawa, director of Hitachi's Kanagawa plant and a key man in the company's computer business. Mr. Nakazawa was indicted in the case.  This interpretation seems to be based on the Japanese assumption that government and business work closely together in America just as they do in Japan, and primarily for business reasons. Behavior Seen as Common  The prevailing view in Japanese business circles is that Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric are accused of behavior that is apparently rather common in the United States computer and electronics industries.  ''Hitachi should have been more careful, but what they did is understandable,'' said Minoru Harashida, a 35-year-old chef at a small Tokyo restaurant. ''I sympathize with Hitachi.''  Many Japanese business executives expressed the view that the case will cause a backlash against the American computer company's Japanese subsidiary, I.B.M. Japan, hurting its sales here.  Japan is a society that encourages collective values. A few weeks ago, for example, when a boy was trapped in an elevator for hours while his mother was in a pachinko parlor, it brought calls for better and more attentive mothering.  Similarly, the computer case is not viewed as an isolated event, as it might be in the individualistic West, but has prompted a critical look at Japan's technological progress, as well as calls for redoubling national efforts to develop original technology and more home-grown inventors.  ''The I.B.M. case not only symbolizes the large technological gap between the United States and Japan in certain fields, but it has also revealed the deficiencies of Japan in the matter of original advanced technology,'' the Asahi newspaper observed.  The Japanese forte has been to borrow original technology developed by others, refine it and then manufacture products more efficiently and cheaply. Once the competition is based on manufacturing prowess, Japan, with its tightly disciplined and well-educated work force, has the advantage.  This ''shortcut strategy'' in technology has been instrumental to Japan's economic success, according to Masanori Moritani, a senior researcher at the Nomura Research Institute and author of ''Japanese Technology: Getting the Best for the Least.''  It is nothing new. Much of what was called ''Yankee ingenuity'' in the late 19th and early 20th centuries was merely the American superiority in bring to the marketplace products and technologies that were developed in Europe.  Japan has been helped considerably by the very nation it most wants to catch - the United States. Between 1950 and 1980, Japan paid $10 billion to $12 billion for more than 30,000 technology-import agreements, mostly from America, estimated James C. Abegglen, vice president of the Boston Consulting Group in Tokyo.  By comparison, the total expenditures by Japan over the threedecade span represent less than 20 percent of the present annual United States research and development spending, Mr. Abegglen said. ''It was the biggest fire sale in history,'' he added. Voicing Similar Warnings  In the early 1970's some American executives, including Fred Bucy, head of Texas Instruments, began warning their peers of the danger of too readily licensing technology to foreign companies, but few were listening. Interestingly, some Japanese executives are now voicing similar warnings about licensing steel and auto-making technology to South Korea.  Today, America's advantage is that it remains the leader in many fields of technology, such as computers, semiconductors, genetic engineering and computer software. In addition, the United States has a wealth of technical creativity that Japan cannot yet match.  But the cost of being a leader is that catching up is a fast process, meaning that the innovator must either keep his secrets well, or be jumping ever higher to catch the cutting edge of technology. The profits from a breakthrough must be realized fast, or there will not be the capital to go on to the next stage. The I.B.M. material would have saved Hitachi up to two years in catch-up time.  Illustrations: photo of Yasukichi Hatano 
