20010913
 Moving Target: Bin Laden's Network, Far-Flung and Fanatic, Challenges Retaliation --- Any Strategy Must Account For the Number of Cells, Likelihood of Backlash --- `My Ideas Go on Forever'   By By Wall Street Journal staff reporters Chris Cooper in Berlin, Steve LeVine in Almaty, Kazakstan, Daniel Pearl in Bombay, Hugh Pope in Istanbul and Carla Anne Robbins and Neil King Jr. in Washington, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 14, 2001  In the strongest sign yet that the U.S. is gearing up for a military strike against Mr. bin Laden's home base of Afghanistan, a U.S. diplomat yesterday presented President Gen. Pervez Musharraf of neighboring Pakistan with a request verging on a demand: that Pakistan grant the U.S. a wide range of military "logistical support." That would include the use of Pakistani airspace and the ability to station large numbers of military-intelligence personnel on Pakistani soil. The U.S. also wants to store fuel and ammunition in Pakistan in advance, according to someone familiar with the document. (For updates throughout the day, go to the online Journal at WSJ.com.)  One of the biggest questions is whether Mr. bin Laden has made common cause with Iraq's Saddam Hussein. Iraqi television has gloated over television footage of the collapsed World Trade Center towers, showing the video along with an Iraqi hymn including the refrain, "Down with America." Mr. Hussein was the one Arab leader who dared to declare that the U.S. deserved to be hit. Yet the possibility for cooperation with Iraq is limited by the fact that Messrs. bin Laden and Hussein are rivals for leadership of the movements to destroy Israel and drive the U.S. out of the Middle East.  The U.S. can launch Tomahawk cruise missiles from ships or Virginia-class attack submarines against the landlocked Afghanistan with virtually no help from neighboring countries such as Pakistan. In 1998 the U.S. didn't inform Pakistan of missile strikes that crossed its air space on the way to targets in Afghanistan until the missiles were airborne, former defense officials say. But those missiles carry a relatively small payload. If the U.S. wants to go against any mobile, hardened or buried targets it would need to use long-range bombers and short-range fighters, and seek permission to fly out of Pakistan or some of the nations of the former Soviet Union that border on Afghanistan.   
