19810626
CHARLOTTE, N.C.— The irony was not lost upon the sponsors of a dinner honoring attorney Julius L. Chambers and Federal Judge James B. McMillan.  Here was the Charlotte chapter of the National Conference of Christians and Jews giving a silver medallion to the black lawyer who in 1969 argued one of the most important school desegregation cases, Swann v. Mecklenburg, and another to the white judge who in that case first ordered busing as a remedy for segregated schools.  At the same time, in the United States Senate, North Carolina's Jesse Helms was leading a fight to prevent the Department of Justice from taking part in any suits to desegregate schools by the use of busing. Only the dilatory tactics of a Republican liberal, Lowell Weicker of Connecticut, had so far prevented the House-approved busing ban from passing the Senate - which it did in 1980, only to be vetoed by President Carter.  Busing is, in fact, moribund if not dead as a remedy for school desegregation where it still exists. Already, Congressional action prevents the Department of Education from requiring busing as a precondition for Federal aid to a school district; already, Attorney General William French Smith has pledged not to seek desegregation through busing.  But anything as radical as a legislative ban on busing suits ought to be opposed by a President who styles himself a conservative. After all, in some cases in which busing alone can end segregation, the ban will prevent Mr. Reagan from carrying out his oath to enforce the Constitution. Moreover, his Department of Justice is being deprived of jurisdiction it has traditionally and constitutionally exercised.  But Mr. Reagan, long an opponent of busing himself, is yielding the powers of his office under pressure from radicals on his right, like Mr. Helms, who claim that Americans are ''sick and tired'' of busing. And that was the real irony of the dinner in Charlotte.  For if busing neither works perfectly nor has total support in the largest city in Jesse Helms's home state, after a decade of effort it is accepted and has been made effective; the schools are improving, the community is widely judged the better for the experience and the men who brought it about are now honored for doing so.  ''Everybody who's anybody is here tonight,'' a Charlotte newspaperman said of the audience of 300 blacks and whites that turned out for the McMillan-Chambers dinner. And a Charlotte Observer editorial said the next day: ''It was a happy occasion, one that ought to cause considerable reflection elsewhere in the country.''  The editorial called the Helms busing ban ''a mistake'' that ''would postpone the resolution of black-white conflict in education and perpetuate racial attitudes that have helped polarize many American communities.''  Because of busing, it argued, Charlotte is no longer polarized in that way. ''Schools are no longer black or white, but are simply schools. As a result, the racial composition of surrounding areas is not as critical as it once was. The center city and its environs are a healthy mixture of black and white neighborhoods.''  Julius Chambers, who was cited by the Conference not just for school desegregation but for improving race relations, responded that for blacks too, Charlotte was a better place to live today than it was when he set up practice here in 1965 - and a better place, he suggested, than numerous non-Southern and still segregated cities to which his civil rights practice had taken him.  Judge McMillan has frequently said that he knew little about Charlotte's schools when the desegregation case reached him in 1969 but that he found the evidence of unconstitutional segregation in his home community ''overwhelming.'' And he told the dinner audience that he had not hesitated to order busing as a tool for desegregation because it had been for so long used as a tool to maintain segregation.  The judge and Mr. Chambers were both reared in rural North Carolina, and both were bused substantial distances to their schools - segregated schools. ''The bus was all right,'' Judge McMillan once said, ''as long as it was used to carry the right color student to the right destination.''  Neither he nor Mr. Chambers even referred to the intense local hostility both suffered as a result of the l969 busing decision. Both were ostracized and threatened, Judge McMillan hanged in effigy, Mr. Chambers's home and office bombed. Busing was orginally resisted by parents' groups, civic and school officials; but the current school board canceled its own meeting to attend the McMillan-Chambers dinner.  All of which raises a point no one mentioned at the dinner but which those who would ban busing might well ponder: What kind of equity is it to say to cities like Charlotte, which have accepted and made the best of busing, that no others will have to undergo such soul-searching, or be made to face their self-imposed deficiencies? 
