19820106
John R. Miller, the former president and chief executive officer of the Hearst Corporation, the nationwide publishing and broadcasting concern, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I.  Mr. Miller worked for the company all of his professional life, starting in 1934 as a circulation clerk. He headed the company from 1975 until his retirement from the presidency in January 1979, overseeing an acquisition program that left the company with 20 magazines, 8 newspapers, 10 radio and television stations and 3 book companies.  Since 1979, Mr. Miller had served as the vice chairman of the 95-year-old corporation's board of directors, chairman of its finance committee and chairman of Hearst's British subsidiary, the National Magazine Company.  A close associate of the Hearst family, Mr. Miller was also a director of both the William Randolph Hearst Foundation of California and the Hearst Foundation of New York. Joined Hearst After Graduation  Mr. Miller was born in La Grange, Ill., and graduated from Goldey Beacom Junior College in Wilmington, Del., in 1934, when he joined the Hearst company.  Eleven years later, he was named vice president o f the Hearst magazine circulation office, the youngest per son named to such a position in the company's history. Other post s he occupied at the company included agency manager, trade manage r, subscription sales director and assistant general manager.  In 1955, Mr. Miller became director of circulation for the magazine branch of the company and subsequently vice president and general manager of Hearst Magazines.  Mr. Miller was elected executive vice president of the parent body, the Hearst Corporation, in 1973. Outside of the Hearst company, Mr. Miller was a director and vice chairman of the Audit Bureau of Circulations, a national organization monitoring newspaper and magazine circulation.  Mr. Miller also served on the board of directors of the Boys Clubs of America and of the United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation.  He was the recipient in 1972 of the Anti-Defamation League's Human Relations Award. Mr. Miller's wife, Helen Elizabeth Fulton, survives him as do their daughter, Dale Dunlap Frehse, and two sons, John Robinson 3d and Mark Fulton, and eight grandchildren.  The family will receive friends at the Frank E. Campbell funeral chapel, at Madison Avenue and 81st Street, today between 6 and 8 P.M. and tomorrow from noon to 6 P.M.  A funeral service will be held at the Episcopal Cathedral of the Incarnation, at 50 Cathedral Avenue in Garden City at 11 A.M. on Friday.  Illustrations: photo of John R. Miller 
