19810726
OLD BRIDGE THREE times a month, members of a group called the First Amendment meet at Old Bridge Regional Hospital here to practice speaking. They do vocal exercises, ask questions, give short talks and enact roles. When the meeting is over at 10 P.M., they adjourn to a diner, where conversation can last until the early hours of the morning.  In everything they do, the participants use a breathing technique that has made fluent speech possible for them. Most have been stutterers for decades.  ''It's amazing,'' said 37-year-old Elliot Dennis of Old Bridge, who started the group. ''It's like an oasis for all of us. We may know a new member for only a half-hour, and yet it's as if we have known him all our life. That's because we all have this common experience behind us.''  The common experience, according to Mr. Dennis, is that, prior to attending a workshop at the National Center for Stuttering in New York City, each member of the group had learned to modify his life to accommodate a severe stuttering problem.  That meant that, if lost, he would walk blocks rather than ask directions. If hungry, he might go to a restaurant after rehearsing the word hamburger in his mind over and over - only to change his order once he arrived because his anxiety made it impossible for him to take a chance on trying to say the word.  At home, Mr. Dennis, like most stutterers, could speak to his wife and children. However, when he was with strangers, stress occurred and his vocal chords would not function.  Mr. Dennis's wife, Leslie, became the one who spoke for him. At the library, she would ask for the books he might want; in a store, she would tell the salesman the kind of shirt he needed.  Nothing caused more problems for Mr. Dennis than the telephone. The phone, he said, was a wired time bomb, something to be avoided at all costs.  It would ring and he would not answer it. He would call his wife at work and say nothing; however, the switchboard operator would immediately know who he was and connect him with Mrs. Dennis.  Like so many other stutterers, Mr. Dennis spent hours in the offices of psychologists, psychiatrists, speech therapists and hypnotists, always looking for an answer to his problem.  About two years ago, he read ''Stuttering Solved'' by Dr. Martin F. Schwartz, a speech pathologist, and it rang a bell. ''I couldn't believe it,'' Mr. Dennis said. ''As I read it, the hair on my arms stood up. It was about me!'' Mr. Dennis immediately enrolled at the National Center for Stuttering, which is run by Dr. Schwartz. There, the stutterer is taught to coordinate breathing with speech. First, he learns to breath in and out in a relaxed manner before speaking; then, on exhaling, the vocal chords open.  Called the air-flow technique, it is based on the premise that stutterers experience stress in their larynx, which then subjects them to laryngeal spasms. This makes speech difficult or impossible.  The first attack may occur in the primary grades, often as the result of a question asked of a student by a teacher. The child discovers that he literally cannot get the words out of his mouth.  In his anxiety, the youngster tries to force the words out, only making it worse. After three or four similar experiences, a pattern of anxiety and stuttering is established.  The air-flow technique treats the severe physiological basis of stuttering, and the center's officials estimate that it is successful 90 percent of the time if participants are willing to practice the technique daily.  The program includes an intensive two-day workshop and evaluation and follow-up work for two years, and can cost as much as $1,500. It is often less, depending on the needs of the participants. In most instances, fees are covered by medical insurance.  It is at the first workshop session that each participant, after practicing the air-flow technique, is asked to use the phone. ''I couldn't believe it,'' Mr. Dennis said. ''I thought this guy's (Dr. Schwartz) gotta be kidding. I haven't used the phone in eight years of married life. How did he expect me to do it now?''  But Mr. Dennis did make that call, and with it he began what was for him a new life. ''It's like a guy with one leg,'' he said. ''All of a sudden he has two and can walk. He's going to run all over the place. You can imagine how people like me talk when we're together.''  On leaving the workshop, each participant is asked to wear a button that says: ''I'm a stutterer, therefore I speak slowly.'' Anyone who can wear that button has won 90 percent of the battle, Mr. Dennis said. Little by little, Mr. Dennis began to try things that he had not done for years. Accompanying his wife to a store, he was determined to speak for himself. ''You come along,'' he told his wife, ''but don't open your mouth. I'm going to do the talking.'' Although habit conditioned Mrs. Dennis to try to help once during the conversation, Mr. Dennis made it. ''Oh boy,'' he recalls now, ''I was terrific that day.'' Shortly after the workshop, he organized the First Amendment, a self-help group of former workshop participants. Months later, he found the courage to attend a Toastmasters International meeting in Princeton.  ''Even people who are fluent are very nervous about standing up to speak,'' Mr. Dennis said. ''But I finally went with another member of our group. No one knew we were stutterers until we let them know.''  Word of the First Amendment spread. Last spring, Mr. Dennis was asked to help organize a similar self-help group for children in Lincroft. He jumped at the chance.  ''I went over there hoping to give the youngsters a little inspiration,'' he said. ''It worked the other way. God, it's great to know that these children can be fluent and won't have to live the kind of life I did. You just have to be glad you're alive.''  Richard Bower is a pharmacist who travels from his home in Englewood to Old Bridge to attend meetings of the First Amendment. A man who characterizes himself as a severe stutterer since the third grade, Mr. Bower said he was forced to continue speaking because he was a bachelor living on his own.  ''You do what you have to do to manage,'' he said. ''But I think that part of the reason I'm a bachelor has to do with my speech.'' The major change brought by fluent speech, Mr. Bower said, is one of self image. He used to be thankful that his employer gave him a job. Now, he says, he finds himself thinking: ''Wait a minute, I'm good at what I do. I should be given more responsibility.'' (He was recently named Director of Pharmacy at Richmond Memorial Hospital in Staten Island.)  It is important, Mr. Bower said, for stutterers to realize that there are therapies available now that were not five years ago, and that they are far more successful than those formerly tried.  Mr. Bower is establishing a self-help group in Bergen County similar to the First Amendment in Old Bridge. For further information, he can be reached at (201) 569-4917. Mr. Dennis's number is (201) 679-5469. 
