19811021
Correction Appended WASHINGTON, Oct. 20— The Reagan Administration announced today that it was reconstituting the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board in an effort to improve ''the quality and effectiveness of intelligence available to the United States.''  At the same time, the White House appointed the members of the Intelligence Oversight Board, a three-member panel desiged to insure the ''legality and propriety'' of intelligence activities.  Richard V. Allen, the President's national security adviser, who made the announcement, called the two groups ''key elements in the President's program to revitalize and strengthen American intelligence capabilities'' while ''insuring that constitutional rights of all Americans are fully protected.''  Mr. Allen said that Anne Armstrong, a Republican who is a former United States Ambassador to Britain, and Leo Cherne, a Democrat who headed the 19-member advisory board. under President Ford, would serve as chairman and vice chairman of the reconstituted group.  Mr. Allen also announced that W. Glenn Campbell, director of the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace at Stanford University, would head the oversight panel. Advisory Board Controversial  The advisory board has had a controversial history. Its ancestor, known as the President's Board of Consultants on Foreign Intelligence Activities, was created by President Eisenhower in 1956, when the Suez invasion and the Hungarian and Polish uprisings brought serious questions about the adequacy of the nation's intelligence-gathering. Renamed in 1961, the board retained its mandate as an independent body to assess American foreign intelligence efforts.  President Ford created the Intelligence Oversight Board in 1975 in response to abuses by the intelligence agencies disclosed after the Vietnam War and Watergate.  In May 1977, President Carter abolished the advisory board, but retained the oversight panel. Former members of the advisory board said that Mr. Carter had been told that while it had little direct effect on intelligence operations or policy, it had been a source of tension in the intelligence community. Two Teams Were Set Up  Mr. Cherne recalled today, for example, that it was the advistory board's recommendation that prompted the Central Intelligence Agency to establish two ''teams'' to examine Soviet military strength and spending. That experiment made the board unpopular among some intelligence officers, Mr. Cherne said.  Mrs. Armstrong said in an interview today that the advisory board had ''a splendid track record,'' including having pressed intelligence agencies to place greater emphasis on overhead reconnaissance, economic intelligence and competition in analysis.  Mrs. Armstrong stressed that she and President Reagan, who telephoned her this morning to offer her the post, believed in ''competition'' in analysis, and that fostering it would probably be one of her key goals.  According to the executive order recreating the advisory board, it will report directly to the President. It will have authority to ''review the performance of all agencies'' in intelligence collection, analysis and execution, as well as a full-time staff and consultants to conduct special inquiries. It will report at least semiannually, but Mrs. Armstrong said she expected that her group might meet two days every two months, or more often. Once Had Authority to Initiate  Mr. Allen was less specific about the oversight panel, and his office declined to respond to questions about mandate and operations. Under the Carter Administration, the panel also had three members and was given authority to initiate investigations into possible abuses by intelligence agencies.  However, a proposed executive order governing intelligence activities being reviewed by the Reagan Administration would limit the oversight panel to conducting investigations of charges actually reported to it.  Although President Reagan vowed in his campaign to re-establish the advisory board, the appointments to both groups were repeatedly delayed by fierce jockeying for membership. e  The advisory board is composed of some long-time friends of Mr. Reagan's, such as Alfred S. Bloomingdale, chairman of the board of Diners Club, and Clare Boothe Luce, who served on the panel in 1973-77.  An appointment that has already stirred some debate is that of H. Ross Perot, chairman of the board of Electronic Data Systems in Dallas, who announced last year that his company had begun a private effort to free the American hostages held in Iran.  In addition to Mr. Campbell, members of the oversight panel are Frank D. Stella, president of the F.@D. Stella Products Company in Detroit, and Charles Tyroler 2d, a Democrat identified as a business ''consultant on national problems,'' and a director of the Committee on the Present Danger, a conservative group.  In addition to those named above, the advisory board members are David Abshire, executive director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Georgetown University; William O. Baker, former chairman of Bell Laboratories; Frank Borman, chief executive officer of Eastern Air Lines; W. Glenn Campbell; John B. Connally, Secretary of the Treasury in 1971-72; John S. Foster Jr., vice president of TRW; Leon Jaworski, a partner in Fulbright & Jaworski and director of the Watergate special prosecution force in 1973-74.  Also, Thomas H. Moorer, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1970-74; Peter O'Donnell Jr., director of the First National Bank in Dallas; Joe M. Rodgers, president of JMR Investments and finance chairman for the Republican National Committee in 1979-80; Paul Seabury, professor of political science at the University of California at Berkeley; Robert F. Six, chairman of Continental Airlines; Seymour Weiss, director of the State Department's bureau of politico-military policy in 1973; and Edward Bennett Williams, partner in Williams & Connolly.  Illustrations: photo of Anne Armstrong Correction: October 26, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition An article Wednesday on intelligence oversight incorrectly described the activity of H. Ross Perot, chairman of Electronic Data Systems, regarding hostages in Iran. In February 1979 Mr. Perot said he had financed an assault by Iranians on a Teheran prison that led to the freeing of two of his company's employees. 
