20010703
 Two Men, Four Hands and the Magic of a Very Hot Fire --- Messrs. Hewitt and Shapiro Make Their Wares in the Old Way; A $9,000 Jar at 2,350 Degrees   By By Jim Morrison, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 3, 2001  You can see Mr. [Mark Hewitt]'s work in a show called "Four Hands: Clay on Fire," at Dai Ichi Arts Ltd., a New York Gallery. Originally scheduled to close June 30, the show has been extended through July 14. The other two hands belong to Mr. Hewitt's friend, the New York potter Jeff Shapiro. In recent years, the market for their wood-fired pottery has been hot, fueled by the growing importance and influence of American ceramics. At prices ranging from $70 for a cup by Mr. Hewitt to $9,000 for a gigantic, 250-pound platter by Mr. Shapiro or a large jar by Mr. Hewitt, more than a third of the pieces in the show were sold on the first day.  For Mr. Shapiro and Mr. Hewitt, selling pots in Manhattan for thousands of dollars is a long journey from their beginnings. Mr. Shapiro returned home from an eight-year apprenticeship in Japan two decades ago to build his kiln and begin making pottery in Accord, a sleepy village two hours north of Manhattan in the Hudson Valley. He taught pottery and English-language classes to Japanese to make ends meet. Mr. Hewitt, who purchased an old farm in Pittsboro, N.C., near Chapel Hill, in 1983, packed his mugs, pitchers and planters and lugged them to fairs and a flea market in Raleigh in a quest for customers during the early years.  Both have been influenced by Japanese pottery, especially the Mingei -- folk art -- movement of the early 20th century. Each apprenticed with a master, then left to build a kiln and live a rural lifestyle. But their styles differ drastically. Mr. Shapiro, 52, creates scarred, craggy work with a firm foundation in the aesthetic of Bizen, one of the six ancient centers of Japanese pottery. He ventures beyond the traditional, ripping, tearing and cutting clay to create both utilitarian pots and sculptural works resembling abstract landscapes. He does not use glazes, instead relying on his choice of clays and the occasional seashell for color, placing his pots face down near the firebox and partially covering them with embers and molten ash, a technique that yields a distinctive surface. "I'm a potter, but I also feel I approach some of the work I do as sculpture," Mr. Shapiro says.   
