20021004
 Over the Borderline: In San Diego, Legal Quirks Help A Radio Empire --- Clear Channel Blankets Market With a Mix of Stations In the U.S. and Mexico --- Using Leverage With Ad Buyers   By By Anna Wilde Mathews, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 4, 2002  Clear Channel's tactics have drawn a handful of complaints to the Federal Communications Commission, which enforces the ownership limits. Jefferson-Pilot Corp., the No. 2 radio operator in San Diego, with four stations, has filed a petition criticizing Clear Channel's control of its Mexican frequencies and arguing that the foreign-station exemption has created "an anomalous and absurd result, which permits the very market dominance Congress sought to preclude" with ownership caps. Jefferson-Pilot, which is based in Greensboro, N.C., has tried unsuccessfully to take over the operations of a Mexican station but doesn't control any foreign stations. It has asked the FCC to reconsider how it accounts for foreign signals. The FCC hasn't acted on the complaints against Clear Channel.  Clear Channel can throw its weight around in San Diego in a variety of ways. It can secure sole sponsorship of choice concerts and exclusive in-house appearances by sought-after artists. For the last several years, the company has essentially locked up radio promotion of San Diego's popular "Street Scene," an annual outdoor music festival. In return for heavy coverage on Clear Channel's family of stations, the festival's organizers have promised not to work with stations that compete against any of Clear Channel's formats -- which means virtually everyone.  Late last year, when Mr. [Gavin] was placing ads valued at about $400,000 for a hair-salon chain, he says he considered Clear Channel, as well as Viacom's KPLN and Jefferson-Pilot's KSON, a country station. To grab a bigger share of the $400,000, Clear Channel offered a bonus, Mr. Gavin says: a contest for a trip to Las Vegas in which contestants had to mail in a postcard obtained from one of the hair salons. Clear Channel also threw in free promotions of the contest on several of its stations valued at a total of $40,000. Mr. Gavin says he took the deal and avoided KPLN. He did buy a few spots on the Jefferson-Pilot country station because Clear Channel didn't yet own one. These days, he says he would probably go exclusively with Clear Channel -- since it now operates its own country station -- but he hasn't done so yet.   
