19820325
The United States Supreme Court's refusal yesterday to make employees of the Long Island Rail Road subject to New York State labor law was a sharp blow to efforts by transit officials to strengthen management's hand at the bargaining table.  Those efforts, had they succeeded, would have aided the state in other negotiations as well. And they might have permitted an overhaul of the union structure on the Long Island and on Conrail's Harlem, Hudson and New Haven Divisions.  In the world of public-employee bargaining, where every contract is loosely tied to every other contract by a web of politics, traditions and simple me-tooism, a victory for management on the Long Island would have had a ripple effect on subway workers and even city and state employees.  ''This is not helpful,'' said Deputy Mayor Robert Wagner Jr. ''I expect the negotiations will be tougher as a result of this court decision,'' said an official of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.  ''This is such a victory for me, words can't explain it,'' said Edward Yule, chairman of the victorious United Transportation Union. Busiest Commuter Line  It was the M.T.A.'s chairman, Richard Ravitch, who pushed the plan, struck down yesterday, to overhaul labor relations completely on the L.I.R.R., by far the nation's biggest and busiest commuter rail line.  Mr. Ravitch's plan was straightforward. The L.I.R.R., once a private carrier, just as many subway and bus lines were, is now a subsidiary of the M.T.A., a state agency. Its workers, therefore, must be state employees, he reasoned. As such, they should come under the jurisdiction of the state Taylor Law, which regulates labor relations for public employees, rather than, as things stand now, the Federal Railway Labor Act, which sets the rules for labor relations on the nation's railways.  Shifting the L.I.R.R.'s 6,200 workers from the rules of the Railway Labor Act to the Taylor Law would have done two important things:  - It would have stripped them of the right to strike. Under the Federal rules, railway workers may strike, although only after a complicated mediation process that can drag on for months or even years.  - It would have allowed management to seek to abolish the current unions and form new unions along different lines. For Mr. Ravitch's part, he has often said that he felt this jurisdictional change was as important, if not more important, than the question of the right to strike. Represented by 17 Unions  The reason is this: The L.I.R.R. workers are currently represented by 17 unions, divided along craft lines. Motormen are in one union, signalmen in another and conductors in a third. This is the standard setup on the nation's railroads.  But it can be a nightmare for a management negotiator. ''How do you negotiate with 17 unions, any one of which can call a strike and shut the damn thing down?'' said Arthur Perfall, an M.T.A. spokesman.  Under the state law, union jurisidictions have generally been drawn to cover much larger groups of workers. M.T.A. officials believe that, had they not been defeated in the Supreme Court, they could have reduced the 17 unions on the L.I.R.R. to two or maybe three.  These same two issues also apply to the Harlem, Hudson and New Haven commuter lines, whose workers are also covered under the Railway Labor Act and are represented by virtually the identical set of unions. These lines are currently operated by Conrail. But at the end of the year, Conrail is going out of the passenger business, and the M.T.A. must decide whether to take over operation of the three lines or give them to a new, and untested, commuter division of Amtrak. Other regional transit agencies in the Northeast, the Conrail region, are facing a similiar decision.  Mr. Ravitch had said he would take over the three rail lines if he could bring the workers under the Taylor Law. Now, Mr. Ravitch said in a statement yesterday, there are ''unfortunate implications, and we will be assessing our position.'' Penalty Provisions Deter Strikes  While Mr. Ravitch has often stressed the jurisdictional questions, removing the right to strike surely would have strengthened management's hand.  Indeed, while the Taylor Law has not prevented strikes since its enactment in 1967, its penalty provisions do deter strikes in many cases - particularly a second strike by the same union.  City subway and bus workers, in the only strike they have ever called under the Taylor Law, walked out for 11 days in April 1980, and were fined severely for violating the ban on strikes. L.I.R.R. workers struck for seven days in December 1979, and, since their action was legal, were not penalized.  Now the city subway and bus workers have returned to the bargaining table to negotiate their next contract. Their approach, according to all involved, has been moderate, and the union has actually looked for opportunities to say it does not wish to strike again. The L.I.R.R. unions have also returned to the bargaining table, and M.T.A. officials say they see little sign of moderation in the unions' attitude since the last strike. 
