19820404
In a Moscow hotel room late one night in 1970, the young pianist Horacio Gutierrez was awakened by a telephone call from an American he had never met. ''Congratulations,'' the man began. That was how Mr. Gutierrez learned he had won the silver medal at the fourth International Tchaikovsky Piano Competition. He had gone to bed without waiting for the judges' decision.  In the years since then, Mr. Gutierrez has concentrated on taming his phenomenal piano technique. He seems always to have had the power to deliver brash and percussive sounds at times, but not always the right times.  Now, however, he is older and less impetuous, and in his recital at Carnegie Hall tomorrow evening, Mr. Gutierrez will play four big sonatas that he says mirror his own progress towards artistic maturity. Two are by Beethoven: the Sonata in D Major, Op. 10, No. 3, and the Sonata in F minor, Op. 57 (''Appassionata''). Also on the program are the Sonata in B-flat minor (Op. 35) by Chopin, and the Sonata No. 7 by Prokofiev.  These are often-played works, as are most of the pieces in his repertory, but their popularity with audiences is not why he chose them. ''A lot of times I hear, 'He's doing hackneyed pieces,' '' Mr. Gutierrez said recently. ''As a young interpreter, I feel that it's wrong when people think that by doing the 'hackneyed' you are taking the easy way out. I'm so grateful that Serkin played Beethoven over and over because I learned from it. I never learned from one reading of it. I learned from the dedication that he put into those pieces.An actor can do a wonderful role in a wonderful Neil Simon comedy and be very successful and win a Tony, but when you do King Lear or Hamlet or Othello it's a real challenge. I am just trying to measure up to these works.''  Measuring up may not have been easy, but Mr. Gutierrez has learned to make it look easy. After his last Carnegie Hall recital, two years ago, Allen Hughes wrote in The Times ''So skillful is Mr. Gutierrez's command that he can ripple through the fastest of scales and toss off intricate filigrees without breaking the intended dynamic pattern and without loss of tone quality.''  Mr. Gutierrez made his New York recital debut in 1972 and his New York orchestra debut in 1977 with Lorin Maazel and the Cleveland Orchestra, with which he had already played in Cleveland, at the Blossom Festival, in Mexico City and at the Hollywood Bowl. This season, he has already appeared here twice - once with and the New York Philharmonic led by Andre Previn, and the second time with the Orchestre de la Suisse Romande under Horst Stein as part of that orchestra's tour of the eastern United States and Europe.  This concentration of appearances has happened even though Mr. Gutierrez carries a somewhat smaller repertory than many pianists his age - about five concertos at any given time and little contemporary music. He has structured his workload this way in order to focus on the refinements he considers so important. ''I've had opportunities to play very important engagements at Carnegie Hall with important orchestras,'' he said, ''and I turned them down. Sometimes people would say, 'You're crazy,' and I would say, 'Well, I don't feel I'm ready.' That they could not understand because there is the attitude that you've got to play, further the career.''  Until last year, when he finally worked it out to his liking, he was not satisfied with his pedaling in Ravel's ''Gaspard de la Nuit'' - a piece he first learned in 1973. And until a couple of months ago, he had not been happy with the opening theme of the Rachmaninoff Piano Concerto No. 3, a piece he has played more often than anything else in his repertory.  ''I've finally come to terms with it,'' he said. After a pause he took that back, sort of. ''Well, it's certainly better than it was before.''  Mr. Gutierrez is one of today's two prominent Cuban-born virtuosos - Jorge Bolet is the other - and he made his orchestral debut in Cuba at the age of 11.  He was born in Havana in 1948 and became an American citizen when he was 19, but the family's roots are in Spain. On his mother's side were generation after generation of Spanish band leaders, and that is probably why she was not surprised when her infant son cried each time she played a certain piece on the piano. Neither mother nor son remembers exactly what music set off such emotion in the playpen.  He went through this until his mother decided to teach him to sing - and he picked out the melody on the keyboard instead. At the age of five he began studying with one of Cuba's foremost teachers, Cesar Perez Sentenat, who had studied in Paris with the pianist Joaquin Nin.  After Fidel Castro came to power in 1959, Sentenat declared that the young Gutierrez should be sent abroad to continue his studies. Not to the United States, Sentenat said, but to Czechoslovakia, one of the first countries to establish diplomatic relations with Castro's Communist regime.  ''One of the reasons my parents left the country was that they were afraid they might not have a say in the matter,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''They didn't like the idea of my going away to study, and certainly not to Prague.'' 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
