19811216
The reported success of Soviet doctors in treating a blinding eye disease in a child who returned to the United States from Moscow yesterday has aroused skepticism among American doctors familiar with the hereditary disorder and with the Russian therapy.  An American expert said in an interview yesterday that ''no beneficial effect'' had been found in follow-up examinations of several patients who had received the therapy in the Soviet Union for the disease, which is called retinitis pigmentosa.  Retinitis pigmentosa, which affects at least 100,000 Americans, is the name applied to a group of diseases characterized by gradual and irregular deterioration of the rods, cones and pigment in the eye. There is no accepted treatment for the disorder in the United States except for two very rare forms.  In the overwhelming majority of cases, the damage is slowly progressive, gradually destroying vision in childhood or early adulthood.  Twelve-year-old Todd Cantrell of Dalton, Ga., was the latest of about 200 non-Soviet retinitis pigmentosa patients, including 50 Americans, who have gone to the Soviet Union for injections of ribonucleic acid, or RNA, in the hope of forestalling damage or restoring their vision, according to The Associated Press. Ribonucleic acid is the chemical most responsible for carrying out the instructions encoded by DNA in the genes. Success Rate Put at 45%  Doctors at the Helmholtz Institute in Moscow have reported a success rate of 45 percent, according to Todd's mother, Betty Cantrell.  In the last several years, however, Soviet doctors have progressively reduced claims from improvement to stabilization to applicability in only special cases, according to an American physician who is familiar with the medical journals involved.  The physician, Dr. Eliot Berson of the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary in Boston, said that he was among American ophthalmologists who had examined several retinitis pigmentosa patients who had been treated in the Soviet Union.  ''No beneficial effect'' was found in any of the patients, Dr. Berson said, adding that three of the seven whom he had examined showed ''further deterioration'' that may have reflected either the natural progression of the disease or complications of the therapy itself. 
