19961204
 GM's Hughes Unit Seeks Bids for 2 Lines --- Arms, Aerospace Businesses Could Fetch $8 Billion In Spirited Competition   By By Wall Street Journal Staff Reporters Jeff Cole in Seattle, Steven Lipin in New York And Gabriella Stern in Detroit, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 5, 1996  McDonnell Douglas Corp., Northrop Grumman Corp. and Raytheon Co. are expected to be potential bidders in what is likely to be a hotly contested auction, these people say. The operations being shopped contributed about 41% of Hughes's $14.7 billion in sales in 1995, and about 39% of its profits. They include defense electronics, missiles, information systems and air-traffic-control equipment.  If Hughes does complete an auction of its defense operations, it would mark the biggest and most significant move this year in what is a frenetic time of consolidation in the U.S. aerospace and defense industry. The trend was accelerated in 1995 by the merger of Lockheed Corp. and Martin Marietta Co., and followed by the combined company's $9.1 billion acquisition of Loral Corp. this spring. More recently, Boeing Co. has joined the hunt by agreeing to acquire the defense operations of Rockwell International, and Texas Instruments Inc. has been holding an auction of its defense units. Hughes's auction is likely to overshadow that sale.  Analysts have been expecting a big move by Hughes for some time, and Wall Street could well applaud a radical restructuring. Shares of Hughes are up about 7.6% this year, well below a composite of companies making electronic instruments, which is up 22%, according to Baseline. Stephen Jones, an analyst at Value Line, suggested in October that Hughes could send its auto electronics to GM and sell the defense operations, and perhaps even spin off the telecommunications and satellite unit to GM shareholders. For Hughes, greater freedom to operate would "facilitate expansion of the unit's fast-growing [satellite] business." Hughes recently agreed to purchase PanAmSat, the global satellite company, for $3 billion.   
