19820410
AUGUSTA, Ga.— HE'S only two strokes out of the Masters lead now with 36 holes to play, but yesterday morning Tom Watson stood in the sun outside the Augusta National clubhouse and shook his head.  ''It wasn't a very good finish,'' the defending champion said with a forced smile. ''I'm going to have to draw things together to get myself back in the tournament.''  At that moment, it appeared that Tom Watson might have shot himself out of an opporutunity for a third Masters green coat. While completing the last nine holes of his rain-interrupted first round, he was sailing along at even par until he had one of those Masters disasters that occur so often on the back nine of golf's botanical gardens. At the short 16th hole he pulled a 7-iron into the pond and took a triple-bogey 6 there. On the 17th a bunkered approach cost him another bogey. On the 18th three putts from 45 feet for another bogey left him at 77, eight shots behind Jack Nicklaus, who opened with a three-under-par 69.  ''I just didn't perform,'' Tom Watson said. With that, Watson, the winner of nearly $2.7 million on the PGA Tour, signed a few autographs, walked into the white wooden clubhouse and disappeared behind the varnished swinging doors of the Champions Room on the second floor. Only past champions are permitted in that wood-paneled sanctuary with the Masters green motif. They change their shoes there. They have breakfast or lunch there. They have a few laughs there.  ''I listened to Sam Snead tell stories,'' Tom Watson was saying now, ''and I had some breakfast.'' With his second round to play in the afternoon, Tom Watson was also thinking as he sat in the Champions Room. Thinking about that triple bogey-bogey-bogey finish, thinking what he would have to do now if he were to be the first golfer to win the Masters in consecutive years since Jack Nicklaus did it in 1965 and 1966.  ''I just got stubborn with myself,'' he was saying now after a three-under-par 69 in the afternoon. ''I told myself I'm not going to let it happen anymore, I'm too good a player to let it happen. I told myself I've played this golf course well before and I can play it well again. I wanted to shoot an under-par round and I did.''  In the glow of the late afternoon, Tom Watson was on his way to the practice tee, but he hadn't spent much time there between rounds yesterday.  ''By the time they made the pairings for the second round, I only had about 25 minutes before I teed off,'' he said. ''I hit five wedges and five drivers and that was all I had time for. I've played bad golf before, but I had to bear down and get it out of my mind.''  That he was able to do it, so quickly and so successfully, tells all anybody has to know about why Tom Watson has been the world's best golfer over the last six years.  After a sudden 77 in the morning, most other golfers in the Masters would have been thinking about making the 36-hole cut. Tom Watson, instead, was thinking about what he had to do to get back into the tournament and somehow win it. If he were to win this year, his 77 would be the highest first-round score (by three strokes) for an eventual champion in the 46 Masters tournaments.  Three winners opened with a 74 in other years - Jack Nicklaus in 1963, Sam Snead in 1954 and Horton Smith in 1936. All three, however, were closer to the lead after the first round than Tom Watson was. Nicklaus was five shots behind, Snead and Smith each four. Tom Watson was not only eight shots behind after his 77, but he also was eight shots behind Jack Nicklaus himself. But after yesterday's second round was completed, Tom Watson suddenly was only two shots away from the lead, shared at par 144 by Craig Stadler and Curtis Strange after Jack Nicklaus himself had a 77 for 146.  ''I'm back in it,'' Tom Watson said. ''With the greens so fast, I've felt all week that even par 288 for the tournament is the score to beat.''  To shoot that number, the defending champion needs theoretically to finish with 71-71, but anything above that might doom his chances. He realizes that. As he meditated in the Champions Room yesterday, he knew he was five over par for the tournament and couldn't afford to soar any higher.  ''I made my allotment of mistakes for the week,'' he said, referring to those three finishing holes in the morning. ''I can't make any more.''  In the afternoon, Tom Watson made no mistakes. At least none that resulted in a bogey. Despite a wind that literally blew some names off the leaderboard near the 18th green, he had a par at each of the last three holes that had ambushed him in the morning.  Hitting a 5-iron into the afternoon wind at the 170-yard 16th, he put his ball on the left edge of the green. He two-putted from 45 feet.  At the 400-yard 17th hole, he hooked his drive onto rain-slicked mud beyond the gallery ropes and knocked a 7-iron to within 15 feet. After twice walking away from his ball as his slacks flapped in the wind, he two-putted.  At the 405-yard 18th hole, he bombed a long drive, spun a 7-iron pin high on the right fringe and two-putted from 20 feet. ''I just scrambled around, but I didn't make any serious mistakes,'' Tom Watson said. ''It was a tough golf course; that wind really blew. On some holes, you had to guess the gusts. The right guess or the wrong guess made a 30-to-40 yard difference. But the big thing was, I had a bogeyless round. I'll take that again for two rounds and I think I'll win the tournament.''  And after a 77 in the opening round.  Illustrations: photo of Tom Watson 
