19810607
Visitors to West Berlin this year should not be surprised to find placards and bumper stickers proudly declaring ''Ich bin Preusser'' - ''I am a Prussian.'' Germans are in the midst of a year-long reassessment of their Prussian heritage, and many events this summer and fall will have a strong Prussian accent.  A wide array of cultural activities are designed to remind both Germans and foreign visitors that Prussia was not only a country of warriors -known as an army with a state, rather than a state with an army - but also the home of Kant, Hegel, Nietzsche, Marx, Schopenhauer and Wagner. The Berlin Bach Days, July 7 through 13, will have ''Bach and Prussia'' as a theme, and both the Berlin International Summer Festival (Aug. 15 through 30) and the Berlin Festival Weeks (Sept. 2 through Aug. 8) will emphasize Prussia and the German Romantic age.  The Summer Festival, for example, will open with a concert called ''Fellow Men'' in the courtyard of the Gropius Building, with music that traces the rise and decline of the Prussian empire, from Beethoven to Kurt Weill. The conductor is Caspar Richter; the program will be repeated on Aug. 16. Mr. Richter will also conduct a program entitled ''Prussia - A Dream'' at Charlottenburg Castle on Aug. 22 and 23, and two morning concerts of Prussian beer-hall and military music in the music pavilion of the Berlin Zoo on Aug. 23 and Aug. 30.  A major historical exhibit entitled ''Prussia -An Attempt to Take Stock'' will be at the Gropius Building from Aug. 15 through Nov. 15. The show is designed as an overview of Prussian culture, society and politics between the 18th and early 20th centuries. The growth of industry will be illustrated by such inventions as an automatic weaving machine; period costumes, military uniforms and armaments will also be on display, as well as busts of famous Prussians, photographs of Prussian architecture and historical and military documents. A section will be devoted to the contributions of French, Jewish and Dutch experts to landscaping, handicrafts, and the construction of bridges and palaces.  Among other exhibits will be a show on Jews in Prussia (Sept. 9 through Oct. 30) and on Hegel in Berlin (Nov. 11 through Jan. 9), both at the National Library, and an exhibit of Prussian portraits at the America Memorial Library (August through September).  Debates are to be held on such subjects as ''National Socialism - the Result of Prussian History?'' (Sept. 10) and ''Jews in Prussia'' (Oct. 8) and colloquiums on Frederick the Great (Sept. 9) and Berlin in the Revolution of 1848 (Sept. 20), all held in the Hebbel Theater. Movie buffs with some command of German will find a ''Prussia in Films'' retrospecive at theaters around town in September and October.  For Germans, Prussia is important because it unified hundreds of independent German political entities in 1871, creating for the first time a German state. Prussia was composed of what is now East Germany, most of West Germany and parts of Poland. At the end of World War I, the kingdom became a republic but retained many of the old Prussian territories until the Allies divided Germany after World War II.  ''Prussia was really something once,'' said Wilfried Bennstein, chief restorer at the National Gallery in Berlin. ''There are many old people in Berlin who can still remember what Prussia was really like. They keep Prussia's memory alive, not just as a distant historical occurrence.''  If you are planning a trip to Berlin in the late summer or fall, you may want to whet your appetite at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's exhibition of ''German Masters of the 19th Century,'' which will take place from May 2 to July 5. You can then cross the street to Goethe House, 1014 Fifth Avenue, for more information. Programs and schedules are also available from the German National Tourist Office, 630 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10020 (212-757-8570). - ANDREA GABOR 
