20071102
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Sports -- Golf Journal: Deconstructing Doffing; It's 'hats off' lately when shaking hands on the 18th -- but why?   By Newport, John Paul, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 3, 2007  The probable explanation for how this new custom began is, not surprisingly, television. In the olden days, pros like Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus and Johnny Miller didn't routinely wear caps (mostly they did so only when it was cold or raining), so hat-doffing was uncommon. Nowadays, however, virtually every pro on Tour wears a cap, primarily because their sponsors pay them to, and the television audience for golf is far larger than ever before. Henry Hughes, the PGA Tour's longtime chief of operations, pegs the increase in ritualized hat-doffing on the 18th green to 1998 or 1999. That was when the "new breed" of business-savvy young pros, including Tiger Woods, began to recognize such moments as the branding opportunities they are, and consequently transmitted the hat-doffing bug into the public bloodstream.  The other minor issue I have with the practice -- and clearly this is a matter of taste -- is that it can seem a bit showy. I understand the impulse. No doubt it stems from the customs of tipping one's hat on the street and removing one's hat indoors (especially at private clubs), and perhaps even from the chivalric tradition of a gentleman making his bow to m'lady with his big-feathered hat in hand. But gentlemen don't customarily wear hats anymore, and when they do it's most often golf-like hats worn backward. So the doffing of same, in my view, doesn't always come across as entirely natural.  It can be done well (see Tiger Woods), especially if everyone is on the same page and expects it to happen. But doffing can also put people on the spot. If you're not prepared to doff when others do, it's pretty obvious. And if, for whatever reason, you alone fail to doff, you can't help but feel like a rube. I've been in situations where hat-doffing on the final green felt like etiquette one- upsmanship, which briefly caused some of my earlier suspicions about the game to resurface.   
