20051102
 Home & Family: Work & Family Mailbox   By Shellenbarger, Sue, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 3, 2005  "I wish more critics of teachers would try their hand at being substitute teachers," writes teacher Marie Gerhart. Hurrying to meet a class on a recent day, she says, she overheard a colleague, who had quit a career in business to enter teaching, remark that "he'd had no idea it would be so difficult. He'd never worked so hard in his life, and for so little money."  One such system, called Lettergrade, exposed a teacher's grading error and saved Ms. [Kathy Knaub-Hardy]'s son from getting a C, says the Berwyn, Pa., mother of two. Although she believes her kids' schools are excellent overall, the system "has enabled me to see any 'hiccups' in my children's work and address them ... before they become major problems," she says.  Not surprisingly, teachers aren't crazy about www.RateMyTeachers.com. Mr. [Lou Kerner] says more than 700 schools have banned access to the site from school computers. John See, spokesman for the American Federation of Teachers, Washington, likens the site to "a popularity contest." Nevertheless, Mr. See says, "It's not a Web site we want to close down." The site merely lends the leverage of the Internet to a centuries-old tradition of sharing opinions about teachers.  "I wish more critics of teachers would try their hand at being substitute teachers," writes teacher Marie Gerhart. Hurrying to meet a class on a recent day, she says, she overheard a colleague, who had quit a career in business to enter teaching, remark that "he'd had no idea it would be so difficult. He'd never worked so hard in his life, and for so little money."  One such system, called Lettergrade, exposed a teacher's grading error and saved Ms. [Kathy Knaub-Hardy]'s son from getting a C, says the Berwyn, Pa., mother of two. Although she believes her kids' schools are excellent overall, the system "has enabled me to see any 'hiccups' in my children's work and address them ... before they become major problems," she says.  Not surprisingly, teachers aren't crazy about www.RateMyTeachers.com. Mr. [Lou Kerner] says more than 700 schools have banned access to the site from school computers. John See, spokesman for the American Federation of Teachers, Washington, likens the site to "a popularity contest." Nevertheless, Mr. See says, "It's not a Web site we want to close down." The site merely lends the leverage of the Internet to a centuries-old tradition of sharing opinions about teachers.   
