20101117
The New York attorney general-elect, Eric T. Schneiderman, will have a big role in policing Wall Street, and on Tuesday he tapped several prominent Wall Street lawyers and senior aides of predecessors to help him find staff lawyers to do the job.  At a news conference at New York University's School of Law, Mr. Schneiderman unveiled a transition committee that ''will help recruit top legal talent'' when he takes over in January.  Harlan A. Levy, a partner at Boies Schiller & Flexner, will be chairman of the committee. Three others were named as co-chairman -- Robert Abrams, a former New York attorney general and now a lawyer at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan; Janet DiFiore, the Westchester County district attorney; and Zachary W. Carter, a former United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn.  Mr. Schneiderman said he hoped the committee would ''attract the best legal talent in the nation.'' He is looking for about two dozen lawyers, some of whom he hopes will be in place when he takes office.  Various subcommittees have been established to vet resumes, but Mr. Schneiderman stressed that the panels would not make final hiring decisions.  Wall Street has been keeping a keen eye on Mr. Schneiderman, a relative unknown who assumes a post that has played a crucial role in policing the country's big banks. His predecessors, Andrew M. Cuomo and Eliot Spitzer, brought several high-profile cases against Wall Street.  Mr. Schneiderman embraced the Wall Street sheriff moniker during his campaign and used it again Tuesday. ''Being the sheriff of Wall Street is about restoring confidence,'' he said. He added while part of his mandate would be to ''weed out bad actors'' it was not necessarily about being punitive.  A Harvard educated lawyer, Mr. Schneiderman was elected to the New York State Senate in 1998. He said on Tuesday that while he had been a politician for many years, he spent the early part of his career representing Wall Street firms as a lawyer at Kirkpatrick & Lockhart.  In addition to tapping lawyers like Mr. Levy, Mr. Schneiderman announced that a former deputy attorney general, Avi Schick, would be one of three transition team directors. Other well-known names who will serve on various committees include Eric R. Dinallo, a former top aide to Mr. Spitzer who ran against Mr. Schneiderman for the Democratic nomination for attorney general; Eric O. Corngold, a former top Cuomo aide; and Geoffrey Canada, head of the Harlem Children's Zone. Committees cover several areas, including criminal justice and economic justice.  This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.  PHOTO  
