19810912
WASHINGTON, Sept. 11— The Department of Education announced today that it would no longer provide funds for an Operation PUSH program set up nearly six years ago by 4le Rev. Jesse L. Jackson to increase the academic performance of disadvantaged high school students.  In a letter delivered today to Mr. Jackson's Washington office, an official of the department noted that the PUSH-EXCEL program, for ''push for excellence,'' had refused to allow access to its records by department auditors.  ''PUSH was funded by the department with the best of intentions - to implement innovative education activities for needy children - and it was in this spirit that we were prepared to continue the project under the proposed grant,'' Dr. Vincent Reed, Assistant Secretary for elementary and secondary education, said in the letter.  ''However,'' the letter continued, ''we cannot provide funds to organizations that fail to cooperate with the most minimum requirement to account for Federal funds.'' News Shocks Jackson Aide  James L. Felder, executive vice president of the organization, expressed shock at news of the cutoff when he was reached tonight in Chicago. He said he had been talking with officials of the Department of Education in Washington about the program for the last two days and no one had even suggested that the funds would be discontinued.  Mr. Felder defended the program's effectiveness and said that the department's motives ''are the same old game: destroy, bankrupt and disrupt our programs.''  The Jackson organization, a nonprofit corporation, has received more than $3 million in the last three years from various Federal agencies, inc luding the Department of Education and the Department ofCommerce. The children's education program has been seeking an additional gr ant of $825,000 from the Department of Education.  In his letter to Mr. Jackson, Dr. Reed noted that an audit by the Department of Commerce on July 2, 1980, concluded that the program's accounting system and internal controls were not adequate to safeguard its assets. Denied Access to Records  It was after that finding, Dr. Reed wrote, that the Department of Education sought to make an audit of its own, but was denied access to the organization's books.  Dr. Reed noted that an official of the program, after refusing to permit the audit, suggested in a letter to the Department of Education on July 13 that the requested funds be given instead to local school districts that participate in the program. Dr. Reed said the department did not think that this was a proper approach.  Dr. Reed's letter denying the grant was in response to a letter sent to the department Wednesday by John H. Bustamante, Mr. Jackson's general counsel.  Dr. Reed noted that the Bustamante letter accused the department of improper treatment and impugned the motives for the delay in the funds.  Mr. Jackson, a former aide to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., created the program in an effort to motivate students from poor families.  The program has met with varying degrees of success in the 15 cities where it was instituted. It fell victim to budget cuts in Los Angeles, and there have also been retrenchments in Chicago and Memphis. But reports from some cities, including Chattanooga, Tenn., and Buffalo, said that the program was functioning well. 
