19811229
Since 1952, when Madison Square Garden was still on Eighth Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets and eight teams gathered for a Christmas-time tournament, it has been called the Eastern College Athletic Conference Holiday Festival. Last night, St. John's and Villanova, the two teams that seemed more likely to meet in the consolation game, gave the 30th Festival championship a new name.  ''I'm glad to see the Big East final,'' said Rollie Massimino, the Villanova coach, referring to the conference both teams are in. The remark was made after the highly-ranked Wildcats came from 12 points behind with fewer than 15 minutes remaining and defeated higherranked Indiana, 63-59, before a crowd of 13,443 at the Garden.  In the first game, St. John's beat the highly-regarded Kansas Jayhawks, 76-75, on a layup and foul shot by Kevin Williams with 26 seconds to play. In the last 40 seconds, with the Redmen trailing by 2 points, Williams had missed a shot and thrown a pass that landed out of bounds. ''I thought I blew the game,'' Williams said.  But when it was over, Williams was hugging his father and jumping with joy again and again. While the St. John's players celebrated, their coach, Lou Carnesecca, searched for an explanation of the victory by his unranked St. John's team over the Jayhawks, who took Kentucky into overtime before losing on Dec. 12.  ''Sometimes,'' Carnesecca said, ''there is what you call divine intervention.'' 7 Down in Last 6 Minutes  St. John's trailed by 7 points with six minutes to go, and by 4 with one minute to play. Its best player, David Russell, a 6-foot-6-inch junior forward who led the Redmen with 25 points, was charged with his fourth foul with 8:58 to play. The point guard, Bob Kelly, fouled out with one minute remaining. Chris Mullin, the freshman guard who scored 18 points, was held to 6 points in the second half.  But with Mullin's outside shooting attracting more and more attention, Billy Goodwin, the junior swingman, had an idea. ''They were overplaying the guard popping out to the corner,'' Williams, a junior, said. ''Billy told me to come to an opening.'' With the Jayhawks ahead, 75-73, the ball wound up in Williams's hands with less than 30 seconds to go, but his pass inside bounced out of bounds. Jayhawks Miss Opportunity  The Jayhawks had a chance to put the game away after the pass. But after a timeout, the Kansas center, Kelly Knight, was called for a violation on an inbounds pass.  Knight tried to call another timeout when he had trouble passing the ball inbounds. But a timeout cannot be called after four seconds elapse, and St. John's had the ball and its last chance.  Did four seconds go by? ''I counted seven,'' Carnesecca said. Williams cut straight for the basket, took Goodwin's pass, and made the layup to tie the score at 75-all. The Kansas forward David Magley committed his fifth foul on the play, and Williams's free throw put St. John's ahead for the first time in the last 11 minutes of the game.  The Jayhawks had time for one shot, and it was very obvious, very quickly, that it was going to be taken by Tony Guy, the guard who led Kansas with 23 points. As the clock ticked under 10 seconds, Guy backed in from the left against Goodwin.  ''I figured, well, hey, I have four fouls,'' Goodwin said. ''It didn't really matter.'' As Guy went up for the shot, Goodwin went up with him. Goodwin said he felt a piece of the ball, just enough for the shot to be off target. Russell took the rebound, the buzzer sounded, and the Redmen went wild.  Ted Owens, the Kansas coach, seemed to arrive at a different explanation for his team's loss. He walked out of the dressing room without a word, continued into the tunnel leading to the playing floor, and stopped in front of Ed Steitz, the editor and national interpreter of rules for the National Collegiate Athletic Association.  Owens spoke for a few moments, waved his right hand in disgust and walked away. ''He said, 'You guys do a great job writing the rules, it's too bad you didn't carry them out,' '' Mr. Steitz said. ''I've seen Ted many times, and that's the most upset I've ever seen him. He was upset with the officiating in the last two minutes of the game.'' 27 Fouls Against Redmen  St. John's was charged with 27 fouls, Kansas with 19. The Redmen shot 16 foul shots, the Jayhawks tried 39. But several calls in the final seconds led someone to ask Carnesecca if he thought he had influenced the officials. ''Come on,'' Carnesecca said.  It is not unusual for Carnesecca to move along the sidelines as quickly as his team moves on the court. But last night, he admitted, his emotional dial was turned up one extra notch.  And when it was over, so was his team's. ''He'll never forget that,'' Carnesecca said a few minutes after Williams hugged his father, ''the rest of his life.''  Ed Pinckney knew the feeling. The Villanova freshman forward from the Bronx got 22 points and led the Wildcat scorers. After it was over and it was time to go on television, he told Massimino, ''I'm still shaking.''  Pinckney made 8 of 10 shots, blocked three shots and had four steals. ''I was a little reluctant to shoot,'' Pinckney said, ''but once you take the first shot, and the second and the third, you don't get tentative anymore. I don't think I've been through anything like this.''  Illustrations: Photo of St. John's vs. Kansas (Page B17) 
