19850217
ROSEVILLE, Minn.— Volunteers of America, which has long operated halfway houses for released prisoners, is now embarking upon an experiment in this suburb of St. Paul. It is operating a jail.  For a daily fee of $50 for regular inmates, or $26 for those involved in work-release programs, the Volunteers of America Regional Corrections Center will hold women ordered incarcerated by county, state and Federal judges for two days to a year.  The jail, one of the few privately owned adult corrections facilities in the nation, opened in September, but the idea had been under discussion since the previous fall.  ''This was clearly an opportunity to fill in the gap when government, for whatever reason, was unable to,'' said Bill Nelson, director of the center.  No Space for Prisoners  The problem was that Ramsey County, of which St. Paul is the seat, needed a jail for women serving sentences of up to a year. For a time its prisoners were sent to the Hennepin County jail in Minneapolis, but in 1982 Hennepin County gave notice that it would need all of the space in its 40-bed women's jail.  So women in Ramsey County were kept in a facility designed for defendants awaiting trial. There were no social services or educational programs available on a level comparable to those afforded men.  Harold W. Schultz, the chief judge of the Second Judicial District, said many judges were aware of the inadequacies of the facility and were either not sentencing women to jail or not sentencing them for anything more than a few days.  Something had to be done, but county officials were reluctant to build a multimillion-dollar facility that might be used by only 25 women at a time.  At this point Volunteers of America, which had acquired a reputation among criminal justice professionals for the halfway house it has operated in Minnesota since 1969, suggested to the county that a private organization such as itself might operate a jail. County officials agreed to try it.  Still Assessing the Operation  Volunteers leased a former juvenile detention center from the county for $50,000 a year. It also signed a contract with Ramsey County, and later the Federal Government, to house inmates. It is in the process of reaching similar agreements with five other counties in the St. Paul area.  The operation is still considered experimental, and such questions as accountability for the rights and treatment of prisoners, not to mention whether Volunteers of America will make enough money to stay afloat, are unresolved.  ''Some of these questions are unanswerable until the time comes,'' Mr. Nelson said, ''but we put ourselves at ease and, we think, the county at ease with a very, very substantial insurance package.''  Jack G. Young, Ramsey County's corrections director, added: ''There's a lot of good faith and mutual trust tied into this whole thing.''  The jail, which can now accommodate 30 women, needs to house about 23 regular inmates to break even. It has been averaging about 25 so far, a third of them Federal prisoners.  Popcorn and a Microwave  The facility itself is open, well lighted and quiet. The floors are carpeted. Paintings adorn the walls. Most women have private rooms. At an open snack center they can buy soft drinks and popcorn or warm up their own supply of food in a microwave oven.  ''You see characteristics that you would more associate with a Holiday Inn,'' Mr. Nelson said.  Most of the inmates range in age from 25 to 32 years, though three women were over 65. They arise at 7 A.M. Breakfast, which is optional, is served at 7:30. Rooms are inspected at 8:30.  Assigned housekeeping chores begin at 9. These might include vacuuming, clearing tables or working in the kitchen. For the rest of the day those women who are not on work-release programs are encouraged to take advantage of a well-stocked library or the social services, educational or recreational programs provided by volunteers.  ''We program with the philosophy that people are coming here as punishment, not for punishment,'' Mr. Nelson said. So far, he said, there have been few serious disciplinary problems.  At first glance, it is difficult to tell the jail staff from the inmates, for everyone wears street clothes. But there are some telltale signs. There are searches, even strip searches, when necessary. And there are rooms for solitary confinement.  Some women complain of being bored. Others, like Ann Moses, a 28- year-old woman who had served two weeks of a 50-day sentence for stealing a van, said this was better than the pretrial detention center. ''There's nothing to do there but lay around,'' she said. ''That was a bummer.''  Miss Moses, Wanda Smith, 27, who had been here for three months for stealing a credit card, and Delores Caples, 28, who had three more months to go on an assault conviction, did have complaints ranging from the food to what they described as frequently shifting rules.  But Mrs. Smith allowed that some of these problems were inherent in any new endeavor. ''After they get it together, it'll be all right,'' she said. ''But we're not going to come back just to find out. We'll read about it somewhere.''  Photo of prisoners at privately run jail in Roseville, Minn. 
