19810112
TOKYO, Jan. 11— The president of the Mitsubishi Motors Corporation disclosed in an interview that someone approached his company here last month with the suggestion that it take over the Chrysler Corporation, or go into joint car and truck production in the United States.  But Yoshitoshi Sone said that Mitsubishi, a key foreign partner of Chrysler, is not about to do either and is moving instead to weaken ties to the financially-troubled American automaker.  ''Last month a person who is neither a Government official nor from Chrysler made a proposal for cooperation with Chrysler,'' he said Friday. ''We just listened. All I can say now is that we would not consider either a merger or a joint effort with Chrysler, given its gigantic debts.''  The merger suggestion, sources say, was probably made by someone who is actively helping Chrysler sort through merger options, such as the investment banking firm of Salomon Brothers.  Mitsubishi's stony response to the emissary suggests that the Japanese company, as implied in Japanese news reports, fears the possibility of an eventual Chrysler bankruptcy, even if the United States Government decides this week to guarantee Chrysler an additonal $400 million in loans.  ''Chrysler appears to be receding from corporate recovery, with the possibility of eventual bankruptcy,'' the Mainichi newspaper commented after Mr. Sone met the Japanese press. Positions Reversed  Whatever the outcome, the position of the two automakers has been reversed in 10 years. In 1971, Chrysler and Mitsubishi reached an agreement unprecedented for the Mitsubishi Group - Japan's largest industrial group - when Chrysler took a 15 percent share in Mitsubishi Motors. At that time, the Japanese partner was hoping for aid in export markets. Chrysler began to sell several vehicles manufactured by Mitsubishi, such as Plymouth's Sapporo and Champ, and Dodge's Colt and Challenger. Unlike the industry leaders, Nissan and Toyota, Mitsubishi had no sales network abroad. Now Chrysler badly needs Mitsubishi's help in its home market.  The current attitude of the group, whose leaders - the Mitsubishi Bank, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and the Mitsubishi Corporation - are major shareholders in the auto affiliate, has not been friendly toward Chrysler. For example:  - Last February Japanese banks declined to continue financing sales of Mitsubishi cars and trucks to Chrysler on letters of credit, and Mitsubishi Motors, supported by group members, agreed only to shortterm finance with cash payment in 60 days, a considerable burden.  - By December Mitsubishi was eager to get out of its exclusive United States sales arrangment with Chrysler and offered $100 million in further loans with the condition that it be allowed to create its own United States sales network. The loan collateral was to be Chrysler's shares in Mitsubishi Motors.  - When Chrysler rebuffed the $100 million loan offer, fearing that it might lose the 20 percent of its United States sales accounted for last year by the unusually profitable and pollution-free Mitsubishi models, the Japanese partner quickly announced last month it would set up its own United States sales subsidiary anyway. Dockside Control  Chrysler executives then explained that the Mitsubishi sales company would control the company's cars only on the dockside in the United States - ''to protect us if Chrysler goes bankrupt,'' Mitsubishi executives said here - and that once the vehicles were shipped away by train or truck they were controlled by Chrysler.  But it was clear that Mitsubishi lost patience when it told the press here this month that it cut shipments to Chrysler from an average 15,000 units a month last year to some 7,000 for February, and also stopped sending engines for Chrysler's ''K'' cars, after agreeing to furnish up to 200,000 engines a year. Chrysler had hoped that the compact, fuel-efficient ''K'' cars would rejuvenate the company, but when sales flagged last autumn so did the need for engines.  The remarks that the normally discreet Mitsubishi made to the press underlined the discord between the two companies. The implications of these moves were considerable. Chrysler received some 190,000 Mitsubishi vehicles last year, and monthly shipments were cut to a level less than half that. Estimated K-car engine consignments are to fall from more than 130,000 last year to nothing in 1981, unless Mitsubishi changes course again. The Nihon Keizai financial daily reported this weekend that Mitsubishi would even halt all shipments of cars, trucks and engines to Chrysler next month, but this could not be confirmed with the company.  Mitsubishi also began slowing its steel shipments to Chrysler and began negotiating with Chrysler on tough financial criteria that had to been met for it to continue shipments. A Liberating Bankruptcy?  Mitsubishi's recent actions raise the question as to whether it would prefer to see a bankruptcy as a means of liberating it from the sales agreement with Chrysler.  Whether the group will take a more encouraging attitude to Chrysler, if only temporarily, depends on whether Chrysler gets its additional Federal loan guarantees - and the conditions attached to them.  But the Mitsubishi Group's scepticism about Chrysler's future is no longer in doubt. The worst of it all, to Mitsubishi anyway, is that its Japanese rivals, given their freedom to manuever, increased sales much more rapidly in the United States. Toyo Kogyo, the Hiroshima-based maker of Mazda cars, overtook Mitsubishi as number three Japanese automaker last year in terms of output. Meanwhile Honda, which banks with Mitsubishi and which Mitsubishi Motors long coveted as an ally or merger partner, ensured its independence from the group by brilliant results in America, becoming the highest selling Japanese automaker in the United States in recent months. 
