19850817
Major Federal and city office buildings in lower Manhattan were closed yesterday as utility workers toiled underground to fix electric cables that failed Thursday as demand for electricity was reaching a record level for the New York region.  While nearly 20,000 government workers got the day off yesterday, many hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of New Yorkers who had not heard about the problems were turned away when they sought government services at the Jacob K. Javits Federal Building, the Municipal Building and several smaller office buildings.  Motorists seeking to clear up parking violations, aliens trying to arrange immigration papers and a nursery-school director seeking surplus food for her students all found that government, for them, was closed for the day.  A cold front from the west yesterday brought midafternoon showers and a slight break from the sweltering heat Thursday that had pushed electric demand to record levels in New York City and throughout the metropolitan region.  Thursday's temperature here reached 95, high for the year. The high yesterday was 82, the National Weather Service said.  Four Failures  Thursday's heat contributed to the cable problems, but the biggest difficulty was the failure at nearly the same time of four cables within a small area of lower Manhattan along Broadway, north of Chambers street.  None of the four cables were operating above their supposed capacity, the company said. Therefore, the failures presumably were the result of corrosion or some other problem that developed over time and became worsened by heavy use Thursday.  The failure of four cables in such close proximity to each other appeared to be an unfortunate coincidence, according to Con Edison's vice president for division operations, Raymond J. McCann.  Mr. McCann said Mayor Koch's request to close offices early in lower Manhattan on Thursday afternoon had not been necessary to help the utility with the cable problems.  Indeed, many of the buildings covered by Mayor Koch's request - including the entire financial district -were not even within the power zone in which the troubles were occurring, Mr. McCann said.  Districts Isolated  The power districts are isolated from each other and a failure in one district would not have disrupted power in an adjacent district, Mr. McCann said.  A spokesman for the utility, Daniel Walden, said Con Ed would request a meeeting with city officials to discuss procedures for dealing with emergency problems.  Mayor Koch was asked at a news conference at City Hall if he had overreacted. ''I'm happy it was an over-reaction, in the context that it wasn't necessary to do all that we did,'' the Mayor said. ''God forbid that it was an underreaction. I'm always happier to overreact, if by overreaction you mean taking extra precautions to reduce danger at worst, inconvenience at best.''  Mr. Koch said that before issuing his reguest, he had spoken with Arthur Hauspurg of Con Edison, who had assured him that the cable problems were localized and that there was not going to be a blackout. Mr. Koch said at the time of his conversation with Mr. Hauspurg that he was ''sure he was right'' but wanted ''to be prepared in case.''  Asked City for Help  The head of the office of emergency prepardeness, Brendan Sexton, said that Con Edison had asked the city for help in reducing power drain in lower Manahttan on Thursday, and had not made any distinction between power districts.  The cables that failed Thursday are known as feeders because they feed electricity at 13,000 volts from a substation on Avenue A to transformers that then reduce it to the 120 volts that are provided by wall sockets. The transformers are located under the street or sometimes in large buildings.  The cable failure and related problems disrupted full power delivery to several buildings near Broadway and Chambers Street. Among those affected Thursday were two of the largest government office buildings in the city, the Municipal Building, at the east end of Chambers Street, and the Javits Office Building, at 26 Federal Plaza.  There were problems in switching equipment beneath the Municipal Building and repairs were continuing into the weekend, a Con Edison spokesman said.  Con Edison said it had restored power to the Federal Plaza building yesterday, but Federal officials had already announced that it would be closed for the day.  The failure of these feeder cables caused other cables and 120-volt lines to work harder to carry power, thus causing a series of underground fires, according to Mr. McCann of Con Edison.  Angela Clintron, a detective with the Federal Protective Service, was posted yesterday outside the Broadway entrance of the Federal office building to tell people that the building was closed.  Bojana Mladic, who is from Yogoslavia, was turned away in frustration. She said she was a multilingual secretary for a Yugolslavian bank and had come to see the Iimmigration and Naturalization Service about arranging some of her work documents.  Many others were turned away as well.  A man wearing sunglasses said he had a package to deliver to the FBI. Detective Clintron sent him around the corner to a desk set up for emergencies.  The Parking Violations Bureau, at 49 Chambers Street, was closed, too.  Photo of Police Officers Ronald Marchette and William Handle informing Martha and Basil King that they will not be allowed in the Municipal Building to witness a friend's marriage because of failed power cables (NYT) 
