19810708
NEW ORLEANS, July 7— A former Louisiana state official who was one of five defendants in the racketeering trial of Carlos Marcello, the alleged leader of organized crime in the Southwest, was acquitted today by Federal District Judge Morey L. Sear.  Aubrey W. Young, 59 years old, formerly director of a state drug abuse program, had been accused of being an intermediary between Mr. Marcello and another defendant, Charles E. Roemer 2d, former Louisiana Commissioner of Administration, in an alleged conspiracy to obtain state insurance business by bribery and kickbacks.  Judge Sear ruled, in response to motions filed by Mr. Young's attorney yesterday, that there was insufficient evidence to convict Mr. Young of the Federal charges brought against him. These included racketeering and conspiring to racketeer as well as wire and mail fraud.  The judge said he believed that Mr. Young had not understood the nature of the alleged conspiracy and that he had had no knowledge of the alleged wire and mail fraud. Judge Sear said, however, that there was a possibility Mr. Young's activities might be considered a violation of the state's bribery law but that Mr. Young had, in fact, been charged under the Federal racketeering statute. Inquiry Into Corruption  The trial resulted from a yearlong undercover inquiry by the Federal Government into corruption among state officials in Louisiana. The case was part of the widespread Brilab inquiry (for bribery-labor) into corruption and labor racketeering in the Southwest.  From the beginning of the trial, now into its 15th week, Mr. Young had been known as what one newspaper columnist called the ''littletimer,'' characterized as a message carrier.  In other court action this morning, Judge Sear acquitted Mr. Roemer of two counts of wire fraud in the Federal indictment but denied his attorney's request to acquit Mr. Roemer of four other charges.  A third defendant in the case, Vincent A. Marinello, a New Orleans lawyer, was acquitted this morning of one of the four charges brought against him by the United States attorney, a wire fraud charge.  Judge Sear denied a defense attorney's request to drop charges against Mr. Marcello and another defendant in the case, I. Irving Davidson, a Washington lobbyist. 
