19820702
The Democrats got solidly behind the nuclear freeze and women's movements last weekend, which is good; had a high old time roasting Ronald Reagan, which is understandable; and gave the big hello to those two fresh faces, Edward M. Kennedy and Walter P. (Fritz) Mondale. Judge that for yourself.  Reporters covering the event came to the common conclusion, however, that former Veep Mondale, orating Friday, and Senator Kennedy, declaiming Sunday, had turned on the mid-term conference sufficiently to maintain status as the Top Two contenders for the Presidential nomination in 1984.  Those who refined the matter a little further generally concluded that Mr. Kennedy led at Philadelphia, as he does in the polls, with Mr. Mondale a better second on the platform than he has been in public opinion. One keen observer put it a little differently - that Mr. Kennedy did what was expected of him, while Mr. Mondale did better than expected; hence, Mr. Mondale was the bigger winner.  Generally left in the dust, in no particular order, were the other early contenders - Senators Ernest Hollings (who is another ''Fritz''), Alan Cranston, Gary Hart and John Glenn, and former Gov. Rubin Askew of Florida. They're all vice presidential candidates, reporters concluded that the conference had concluded.  The problem with all this is that it doesn't mean much - perhaps nothing; it merely gets the 1984 election campaign off to the same kind of horse-race coverage that didn't serve anybody, including the political press, very well either in 1976 or 1980. Those of us who stayed home may know who got the loudest applause at Philadelphia, and therefore the Big Mo among reporters; but we know a good deal less about what the candidates, other than the Top Two, were saying, and therefore very little about what the public ultimately may think of them.  The applause, moreover, came from card-carrying Democrats, many with a vested interest in the success of one candidate or another - probably one of the Top Two, the urge to get on the gravy train being as powerful as it is. The reaction in the hall thus tells us precious little about the reaction, if any, in the country.  Which suggests another problem with the Win, Place and Show reports from Philadelphia. Ultimately, most voters are going to get their strongest impressions of the Presidential candidates from what they see of them on television, and what they hear from those they see - in speeches, under questioning by reporters, in debate, in commercials, in news reports. That's an entirely different political game from pounding the podium in front of a partisan audience.  All of which means that the Democratic candidate for 1984 will be chosen in the primaries, by a public not much like the audience that filled the hall in Philadelphia. Even the field won't necessarily be the same - some of those who showed their hands over the weekend will throw them in before 1984; some others who didn't speak at the conference will most likely be running hard by then.  Where, for example, were those Democratic state governors who are bound to be listening hard for the call to higher service? Don't think they aren't out there, to be joined by others after November's elections.  Besides, in modern, television-based politics, as former Democratic Chairman Robert Strauss puts it, ''overnight is a lifetime.'' And whatever else Ted Kennedy and Fritz Mondale may be, they are political veterans who have been dabbling in Presidential politics considerably longer than overnight. The public may well call it a lifetime and send them both to retirement.  Mr. Kennedy, for all his great name and appeal, still has the handicap of a high negative rating among many voters, owing mostly to the Chappaquiddick incident. He has emerged as the vocal leader of the Democratic left, not an unmixed blessing, and his uninspiring campaign of 1980 took the bloom off the rose for many who had looked to him for leadership.  Mr. Mondale has his problems, too - his early withdrawal from 1976 Presidential contention, his close association with the unpopular Carter Administration, and what some Democrats consider his lack of party leadership during the Reagan years.  None of this is to say that the Top Two aren't, at this stage, the Top Two, or that neither can win. In fact, observant Democrats say, both showed at Philadelphia some real assets, as compared to the ephemerality of partisan applause. Each, for example, has a capable staff experienced in the intricacies of primary politics; and each has a money-raising organization in place.  But it'll be bad enough to have the minority parties of two small states -those Democrats of Iowa and New Hampshire who choose to vote -exert so much influence, so early, on the choice of a Democratic nominee in 1984. Do we really need to start picking winners and calculating momentum 18 months before the Iowa caucuses? When overnight is a lifetime, that's a millenium. 
