20010920
 View / The Gallery: Museum vs. City   By By Charles Passy, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 21, 2001  That wasn't the only battle the Norton faced. There was also considerable public outcry over the museum's plans to demolish an 80-year-old wooden shed, essentially a detached garage, on property the museum owned. A neighborhood group called it a "historic" building whose survival was necessary for the sake of preserving the decades-old residential area surrounding the museum. And West Palm Beach Mayor Joel Daves, whose wife is among those pioneer descendants, accused the [Ralph Norton] of nothing less than cultural imperialism, saying it put its own needs ahead of the community. "You needed to hear these residents . . . and you need to hear what I have to say," he declared at that February meeting in which the commission voted unanimously to reject the museum's demolition request. "We will not permit the Norton to extend itself any further into this neighborhood."  Not that Mayor Daves or other residents and officials have ever voiced objections to the Norton's outreach efforts, which include a model program that brings art instructors into inner-city community centers. Nor have there been complaints about the quality of the exhibitions, including a 1999 showcase of treasures from the Vatican that went to only four other American cities. And even the most cynical local would have to admit that the museum, whose exhibition space has tripled in the past decade, has boosted the profile, if not the property values, of its formerly rough-and-tumble neighborhood. Christina Orr-Cahall, the Norton's director, notes that around the time she arrived at the museum in 1990, a prostitute was knifed in front of the building. "A staff member and I pulled her to safety," recalls Ms. Orr-Cahall, an administrator who's no stranger to controversy. (She resigned as director of Washington's Corcoran Gallery in 1989 after a much-maligned decision to cancel an NEA-funded Robert Mapplethorpe exhibition labeled obscene by conservative politicians.)  The irony is that when Ralph Norton endowed the museum, the community was at the fore of his nearly every decision. A wealthy Illinois industrialist and art collector who retired to Palm Beach County, Norton could have easily given his invaluable trove of paintings to the Art Institute of Chicago, where he served as a governing member. Instead, he decided it was needed more in his newfound home, then a county with little more than 50,000 residents but an area inevitably primed for growth. As for issues arising from the museum's location atop a cemetery, Norton, working with a local undertaker, took pains to move any remains to a new location for those pioneer families who so desired.   
