19820531
WASHINGTON— The King of Morocco was having a party, a lavish gathering that flowed through the Moroccan Ambassador's residence and out into an incense-filled tent on the lawn. While even the powerful were getting lost among the more powerful, Alejandro Orfila could hardly be missed.  Mr. Orfila, the Secretary General of the Organization of American States and Latin America's best-known social presence in the capital for nearly 30 years, was his usual exuberant, entertaining self. But for Mr. Orfila, an Argentine, these months of crisis over the Falkland Islands have been trying.  In his O.A.S. capacity, he has been forced to play a neutral role in dealing with his country's friends and adversaries. ''That is my public duty,'' he said the other day. ''But in all my years here, I have not lost my Argentinity.''  Mr. Orfila, who is 57 years old, cannot succeed himself after his second term as head of the 31-member O.A.S expires in 1985. There have been rumors that he may turn to politics in Argentina.  Two years ago, Mr. Orfila's nationality threatened to cost him a second term as Secretary General. His opponent, Ramon Jimenez of the Dominican Republic, had sought to present the race as a choice between one candidate representing the democracies and another representing a repressive military government. Mr. Orfila's diplomatic and political skills prevailed, however. Demands to Leave Washington  In a sense, history has overtaken some of Mr. Orfila's opponents. Latin American democracies have been outspoken advocates of Argentina's military government in recent weeks.  One of Mr. Orfila's newest tasks, in fact, has been to fend off demands that the O.A.S. be moved out of the United States in the wake of the Reagan Administration's decision to aid the British and to punish Argentina for its invasion of the islands Latin Americans call the Malvinas.  ''What happens in Washington every day affects the world,'' said Mr. Orfila, who also has served as his country's Ambassador to Washington. ''It would not make sense to be in any other place.''  Mr. Orfila says that the wave of anti-Americanism now rising in Latin America is a tragedy that might have been averted. ''If the United States had given to Latin America the attention and importance it deserved,'' he said, ''we would have avoided many of the problems we now have. In the O.A.S. we have been talking for many, many years about El Salvador, for example, or the Caribbean.'' 'Several Strong Nations'  ''I understand that the United States has always had other priorities,'' he continued. ''But when Latin America finally did come up here it was not in a North-South context, but in an East-West one.''  Mr. Orfila said that Latin America had changed. ''For one thing,'' he said, ''it is no longer a case of one nation gives and all the others receive. We now have several strong nations in the region.''  The Secretary General, a somewhat impatient man with a penchant for punctuality and orderliness, said that he had concentrated his efforts in his current term on modernizing and streamlining the O.A.S., which faces serious economic problems and has a reputation for indecision and inefficiency. And, recalling that taxi drivers had assumed that he wanted an airline when he asked to be taken to the Pan American Union, he has opened the O.A.S. headquarters to more public functions in the hope of making the agency better known.  ''I want to make John Doe better aware of us,'' he said. ''This has always been an organization of governments; it needs to be an organization of people.''  Illustrations: photo of Alejandro Orfila 
