19820303
The typical user of medallion taxis in New York City is a 35-yearold white woman who earns $27,250 a year, lives in Manhattan below 96th Street and is unhappy with the city's mass-transit system, according to a city-sponsored survey released yesterday.  The survey, the first extensive look in more than a decade at taxi use in New York, was commissioned by the Mayor's Committee on Taxi Regulatory Issues. The committee, which was appointed by Mayor Koch a year ago today, is expected to issue its final recommendations later this month on such issues as the availability, costs and safety of city taxis.  ''On the whole,'' said Richard B. Smith, a Manhattan lawyer who heads the unsalaried 12-member panel, ''the survey does not display a great public uprising about the taxi business, but indicates several areas for improvement.'' He said it ''confirmed a number of impressions we had gathered,'' but also contained several suprises.  The $20,000 study was conducted last October by Crossley Surveys Inc., an independent research concern, which telephoned 2,400 New York City adults at random.  Of those reached, 658 said that they used a taxi at least once a month. Each of the taxi users and one out of three non-regular users were interviewed.  A report accompanying the survey acknowledged that two regular segments of the taxi-using population had been left out: residents of the suburbs and visitors to the city. For the group surveyed, it reported a 5 percent margin of error.  Among the suprises in the survey, Mr. Smith said, was the average waiting time for those seeking medallion taxis - 3.6 minutes. ''The waiting times were suprisingly low,'' Mr. Smith said of the study results.  Among the other findings that Mr. Smith found suprising was that two in five regular medallion-users said that they occasionally take car services or ''gypsy'' cabs.  Among the less suprising findings with regard to medallion taxis were that 18 percent of the respondents had recently been in cabs that were dirty, 43 percent encountered drivers who could not understand English and 63 percent found drivers who did not know their way around the city.  The last major study of the taxi industry in New York City was made in 1969 by the Tri-State Regional Planning Association. The data from the two surveys are not easily compared because the earlier study included the suburbs and did not differentiate between medallion and non-medallion vehicles.  There are 11,787 medallion, or yellow, taxis in New York City, and an undetermined number of non-medallion taxis. The non-medallion category includes illegal gypsies, which answer street hails, and the legal car services, which respond to telephone requests. The survey found that 68 percent of the respondents used the medallion vehicles, 17 percent used gypsies and 15 percent used the car services.  The survey also found that 95 percent of the estimated 186 million taxi trips annually were taken by regular users, those who use a cab at least once a month.  Of medallion-users, 81 percent were white, 10 percent black, 6 percent Hispanic and 3 percent other, the survey found. This compared with 1980 census figures for the city of 61 percent white, 25 percent black, 20 percent Hispanic and 14 percent other.  In contrast, 56 percent of the gypsy cab customers were black and 21 percent were Hispanic, according to the survey. Of regular taxiusers in all three taxi categories, 56 percent were women.  Nearly 80 percent of the taxi riders said that they also depend on the city's mass-transit system.  Illustrations: Photo of ''typical'' taxi user 
