19870205
 The Americas: Has the Mexican Government Rigged the Oil Business?   By By David Asman, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 6, 1987  VILLAHERMOSA, Mexico -- Spread out over an open lot the size of a football field are row after row of neatly stacked pipes, oversized diesel engines, miles of steel cable and chains, and huge metal blocks used to pound drills deep into the earth and pump out rich Mexican crude. The disassembled pieces of rigging are well maintained; one can easily see how the pieces fit together to complete the dirty, noisy process of oil drilling. But there is an eerie silence in the yard. A silence accentuated by seeing such powerful and aggressive equipment lying dormant.  Certainly this scene is being played out in dozens of oil capitals around the world. But here the crash is particularly painful. Villahermosa is the capital of Tabasco -- a tiny, Gulf Coast state (less than 2% of the Mexican land mass) rich in oil and agriculture and the prize jewel in the crown of the government's oil monopoly. In the past two decades, the oil boom transformed Villahermosa from a sleepy, tropical state capital of 30,000 to a fast-paced metropolis of 300,000. A constant flow of income was budgeted to support this fast-growing infrastructure, and of course the crash in oil prices stopped the flow.  Take those dormant oil rigs described above. They belong to one of seven private rigging companies hired by the government to explore and drill for Mexican oil, made exclusively the property of the Mexican government by presidential decree in 1938. Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex), the government oil monopoly, has its own rigs and drilling crews. However, the private drilling companies have always been more efficient. Says a manager of one of the private firms, who, like every other private rigger interviewed for this story, agreed to talk only if his name would not be used: "In the time it takes a Pemex operation to produce oil from a well, a private company can begin pumping oil under the same conditions in approximately half the time." Thus, if in the name of economic efficiency cutbacks in exploration and drilling had to be made, one would naturally expect cuts to be made in the least efficient area. But this is Mexico.   
