19811024
Alberto Salazar remained on target for a world-record run in the New York City Marathon tomorrow, but Rodolfo Gomez and John Graham said yesterday they were equally prepared for the challenge.  ''I won't gamble that Alberto will burn out,'' said Gomez, a 29-year-old Mexican, who finished second to Salazar by 32 seconds in last year's race. ''If Salazar makes his moves, I will go with him.''  Graham, who has run the year's fastest marathon (2 hours 9 minutes 28 seconds in Rotterdam), said New York's five-borough course - which he described as ''fast but hard'' -might be difficult for recordsetting purposes. ''I'm in pretty good shape,'' he said. ''I can handle any pace anyone else runs at.''  Salazar arrived from Eugene, Ore., with his fiancee, Molly Morton, on Thursday night, heard a favorable weather forecast for the race (50-55 degrees, sunny to partly cloudly) and said: ''It looks like I'm not going to have any excuse with the weather. I said 2:08 and I'll stick with it.'' Made Prediction Come True  Last year, before his first marathon here, Salazar stunned many road-racing veterans by saying he felt he could run 2:10, if necessary. He covered the 26.2 miles from the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge to the Tavern on the Green in Central Park in 2:09:41, the fastest anyone has run a first marathon.  Salazar has not run a marathon since. As he sat with Gomez and Graham at a morning news conference, Miss Morton stood off to the side and said: ''So far, Alberto's been very calm. He was more nervous at the Falmouth road race during the summer.'' Salazar won the Falmouth race.  In trying to explain why he felt so confident about breaking Derek Clayton's 2:08:34 - a mark that has stood since 1969 - Salazar said his speed and strength were well ahead of last year's, and he could approach the race more positively than conservatively. ''I've never really had a bad race when my training's gone well,'' he said. ''The only thing that's gonna stop me from running well is the weather or an accident. I'm not scared of that happening.''  Gomez ran 2:10:13 last year, losing the lead to Salazar in the last few miles, he said, when he inadvertently stopped for water and Salazar wisely accelerated. That will not happen this year, Gomez said through an interpreter, for the following reasons: his training has gone consistently well; he ran a victorious 2:11 marathon in Tokyo last March, and he registered a 29:15 for 10,000 meters on a track at high altitude in Mexico City last month that topped his best previous mark for that distance.  ''We all have confidence in our work,'' Gomez said, when asked what he thought of Salazar's prediction. ''Some are loud, and others keep it to ourselves.'' Graham Third Last Year  Graham, a 25-year-old Scotsman, was third last year. ''I think a fast time can be run here,'' he said, ''but to run 2:08 here would be something special.''  Salazar seemed unconcerned about pacemakers. He was prepared to lead, he said, and was accustomed to the role of a front-runner from 5,000- and 10,000-meter races on the track.  ''If I feel O.K. and Salazar's pushing the pace, I'll share it with him,'' Graham said. ''If he wants to push it, I'll help him.'' Graham and Salazar differed on whether a world record could be set off a modest pace. ''I think I can go out in 1:05 and close faster, like 1:03,'' Salazar said, referring to possible half-marathon splits. ''If you want the record, you've got to go straight from the gun,'' said Graham. ''There's no way you can hang about and pick it up.'' Neither Gomez nor Graham seemed intimidated by Salazar's candor. Gomez's strongest attribute may be his consistency; since running his first marathon in 2:18, and finishing 19th at the Montreal Olympics, he has improved his times in all but one race.  ''If you're with Salazar at two miles to go, can you win?'' Gomez was asked. ''I think I can win,'' he said. 
