19820329
* Bank of New York as elected William H. Von Barden, Charles Diccianni, Colleen M. Frey, Matthew E. Gately 3d, Joseph C hatfield 2d, Terrence J. Lee, Matthew J. McDonald Jr., Henry M Milkewicz and David J. Tuccillo vice presidents.  * Burroughs Corp., Detroit, has elected Leon J Level corporate vice president and treasurer.  * City Stores Co. has appointed Howard P. Goodman Treasurer and chief financial officer of the company,and William F. Hamersma president of the Allied Collection Bureau subsidiary.  * Colwell Co., Los Angeles, has named Michael L. Klemens senior vice president in charge of its commercial loan department.  * Coradian Corp., Albany, has named Arthur B. McGuire president and general manager of the Upstate division.  * Datapoint Corp., San Antonio, has elected Gerald R. Birr vice president and treasurer.  * Fedders Corp., Edison, N.J., has elected I.J. MacBrinn a senior vice president.  * General Electric CAE International, Cincinnati, a joint venture of General Electric and Structural Dynamics Research Corp., has named J. Thomas O'Connor chairman.  * Instrument Systems Corp., Jericho, N.Y., has appointed Robert Balemain president.  * Johnson & Higgins has named James G. Harlow managing director.  * McGraw-Hill Inc., has named Harry W. Blake president and general manager of Tratec/McGraw-Hill.  * NCNB Corp., Charlotte, N.C., has elected Hugh L. McColl, chief operating officer, to the additional position of president.  * NL Industries Inc. has appointed Edward T. Zimmerman a vice president.  * Life Investors Inc., Cedar Rapids, Ia., has elected Thomas M. Collins chairman, and Edwin B. Lancaster president and chief executive officer.  * Montgomery Ward, Chicago, has named Donald E. Norman to the new post of vice president-management information systems.  * Occidental Petroleum Corp., Los Angeles, elected James Z. Pugash vice president and special assistant to the chairman.  * Permeator Corp., Houston, has elected Edward Reiss chairman and president.  * Western Union Corp., Upper Saddle River, N.J., has elected Richard D. Alman vice president.  * Scholastic Inc. has elected Richard Robinson, president and chief executive officer, to the additional post of chairman. 
