19811018
Ann Buffington Rhame, a 1981 graduate of Hamilton College, and Peter Breckinridge Coffin, a senior at Hamilton, plan to be married Dec. 30. Mr. Coffin's older brother, George Jarvis Coffin 3d, and Susanne Claypoole Madeira, 1979 graduates of William Smith and Hobart Colleges, respectively, have set April 24 as their wedding date.  Dr. and Mrs. Harold Ellis Rhame Jr. of Fairfield, Conn., have made known their daughter's engagement to the son of Mr. and Mrs. Coffin Jr. of Eden, N.Y., formerly of Wilton, Conn.  Miss Madeira's engagement has been announced by her parents, Mrs. Rufus C. Finch Jr. of New York and Harry R. Madeira of Haverford, Pa., and Northeast Harbor, Me.  Miss Rhame, an alumna also of Choate Rosemary Hall, was presented at the Fairfield Debutante Ball. She attends the Katharine Gibbs School in Norwalk, Conn. Her fiance was graduated from the Ridley College School in St. Catherine's, Ont.  Miss Madeira, who was graduated also from the Garrison Forest School, is an agent with City Travel in New York. Her father is a retired executive vice president of the General Coal Company, a marketing subsidiary of the Westmoreland Coal Company.  Mr. Coffin 3d, a sales representative for Advertising Age, a Crain Communications publication in New York, was graduated also from Ridley. His father is a vice president of the Ostendorf Trading Corporation in Buffalo.  Miss Rhame is a granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. Morris R. Williams of Easton, Pa., Mrs. Rhame of Washington and the late Dr. Rhame, former senior surgeon at the Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn. Her maternal grandfather, who is retired, was chairman of C.K. Williams & Company, a pigments and minerals concern that is now a division of Pfizer Inc. Her father is a surgeon.  Miss Madeira is a granddaughter of Mrs. Crawford Clark Madeira of Haverford; the late Mr. Madeira, former vice president of the Rockhill Coal Company; the late Eckley Brinton Coxe 3d, who was a limited partner in the brokerage firm of Auchincloss, Parker & Redpath, and the late Mrs. Coxe, also of Haverford.  The grandparentrs of the future bridegrooms are Mr. and Mrs. Frederick N.C. Jerrauld of Buffalo and Dr. and Mrs. Coffin of New York. Mr. Jerrauld, who is retired, was general manager of the Southwest Color Printing Corporation, a subsidiary of the Greater Buffalo Press. Dr. Coffin, also retired, was director of medicine at St. Luke's Hospital.  Illustrations: photo of Ann Rhame photo of Susanne Madeira 
