19811221
JERUSALEM, Dec. 20— Following is a transcript of Prime Minister Menachem Begin's statement to the United States Ambassador, Samuel W. Lewis, as read today by Cabinet Secretary Aryeh Naor and translated from the Hebrew by The New York Times  Over the last six months, the United States Government has punished Israel three times. On the seventh of June we destroyed the nuclear reactor Osirak near Baghdad. And I don'twant to tell you today from whom we received the information that this reactor was about to produce atomic bombs. We did not doubt it. Therefore our action was one of rescue, an act of national self-defense in the highest sense of the term. We saved the lives of hundreds of thousands of citizens, among them tens of thousands of children.  Nevertheless, you announced that you were punishing us, and you breached a signed contract that included dates of deliveries of aircraft.  Not much time passed before, in self-defense, and after some of our people were murdered - three killed, including a survivor of Auschwitz, and 29 wounded - we bombed the P.L.O. headquarters in Beirut.  You don't have the right, from a moral perspective, to preach to us regarding civilian loss of life. We have read the history of World War II, and we know what happened to civilians when you took action against the enemy. We have also read the history of the Vietnam War, and your concept of ''body counts.'' We always make efforts to prevent casualties among civilians, but sometimes this is unavoidable, as happened in the bombing of the P.L.O. headquarters. Nevertheless, you punished us, and you suspended the delivery of F-15's. The Golan Heights  A week ago, as per the Cabinet's proposal, the Knesset passed by a decisive two-thirds majority the Golan Heights law. Now you are once again priding yourselves on punishing Israel.  What kind of talk is this, ''punishing Israel?'' Are we a vassal state of yours? Are we a banana republic? Are we 14-year-olds who, if we misbehave, we get our wrists slapped? Let me tell you whom this Cabinet comprises. It is composed of people whose lives were marked by resistance, fighting and suffering.  You will not frighten us with punishments. He who threatens us will find us deaf to his threats. We are willing to listen only to rational arguments. You have no right to punish Israel, and I protest the use of this term. Memorandum of Understanding  You announced that you were suspending the discussion of the memorandum of understanding on strategic cooperation. And your resumption of participation in talks whose dates were set in advance will be conditional on progress in the autonomy talks and on the situation in Lebanon.  You are trying to make Israel a hostage to the meorandum of understanding. I regard your announcement of the suspension of the discussion of the memorandum of understanding as its cancellation. No sword of Damocles will hang over our head. We take note of the fact that you have canceled the memorandum of understanding.  The people of Israel have lived 3,700 years without a memorandum of understanding with America and will continue to live without it another 3,700 years. In our eyes, it is a cancellation of the memorandum.  We shall not agree to your demand that we permit the Arabs of East Jerusalem to participate in the elections to the autonomy institutions and that if we don't agree, you will suspend the memorandum.  You have subjected us to financial punishment, and you have broken the President's word. When Secretary of State Haig was here, he read from President Reagan's written note that you would buy $200 million worth of arms and other equipment. This is breaking the President's word. Is this acceptable and proper?  You canceled another $100 mliiion. What did you want to do? To hit us in the pocketbook?In 1946 an English general named Barker lived in this house. Now I live here. When we fought him, you called us terrorists, and we continued to fight. After we attacked his headquarters in the King David Hotel, Barker said, ''This race will be affected only when we hit it in its pocketbook.'' And he ordered his British soldiers not to patronize Jewish cafes any longer.  Hitting us in the pocketbook was Barker's philosophy. The Saudi Arms Deal  Now I understand all this effort in the Senate to win a majority for the arms deal with Saudi Arabia, accompanied by an ugly anti-Semitic campaign. First we heard the slogan 'Begin or Reagan,' and then it followed that anyone who opposed the deal with Saudi Arabia supported a foreign head of state and was not loyal to the United States. And thus Senators like Jackson, Kennedy, Packwood and of course Senator Boschwitz are not loyal citizens.  Afterward we heard the slogan, 'We will not let the Jews determine the foreign policy of the United States.' What does this slogan mean? The Greek minority in the United States determined the Senate deciision that deprived Turkey of arms deliveries after it invaded Cyprus.  No one will frighten the large and free Jewish community of the United States. No one will succeed in deterring them with anti-Semitic propaganda. They will stand by our side. This is the land of their forefathers, and they have a right and a duty to support it.  There are those who say we must rescind the Golan Heights law that was passed in the Knesset. To rescind is a concept from the days of the Inquisition. Our forefathers were burned at the stake and would not rescind their faith.  We do not have to burn at the stake. We, thank God, have enough strength to defend our independence and our rights. If the matter depended on me, I would say that the law should not be rescinded. But as far as I know, there is no one in the entire world who can influence the Knesset to repeal the law that was passed by a twothirds majority. U.N. Resolution 242  Mr. Weinberger said, and afterward Mr. Haig, that the passage of the law harms Security Council Resolution 242. Whoever says this either did not read the resolution, or forgot it or did not understand it. The essense of the resolution is negotiations for the determination of recognized, secure borders. Syria announced that it would not negotiate with us, that it does not recognize us and that it will not recognize us. And thus it took the essence out of 242. How could we therefore harm 242?  As to the future, kindly inform the Secretary of State that the Golan Heights law will remain in force. There is no power on earth that will bring about its repeal. As to the claim that we surprised you, the truth is that we did not want to embarrass you.  We knew your difficulties. You come to Riyadh and Damascus. And it was President Reagan who said that Mr. Begin was right. If Israel had come to the United States in the first place about the law, the United States would have said no. We did not want you to say no and then afterward to apply Israeli law to the Golan. Our intention was to not embarrass you.  On the matter of Lebanon, I asked that the Secretary of State be informed that we will not initiate a war, but if we are attacked by the terrorists or the Syrians, we will respond by a counterattack.  Illustrations: Photo of Aryeh Naor 
