19820307
If there's one experience a reviewer becomes inured to down the years it's the experience of having friends come in from out of town, as apple-cheeked and bustling as though they were bringing Chicago weather with them, and, after a fur-lined handshake, ask with great exuberance ''Well, what shows shall I see?''  The question means, or implies, various things. Your friends may be saying that although they have never read a single word you've written, they are aware that you make your living reviewing plays; this makes you the ideal person to give them some quick grunts of recommendation, more or less in the manner of the early ape men. Or they may be saying that while of course they've read every word you've ever written, they realize that there are circumstances that keep you from telling the truth in print: stars who must be praised, editors whose tastes must be accommodated, advertisers and such like. ''Come on,'' is the unspoken nudge, ''with us you can level.'' Or, to read the message in still another way, they can be giving you full marks for candor, integrity, manliness and whatever additional virtues you care to claim. But, they seem to be suggesting, you've been going to the theater for so long and have been bored so often that your tastes must have grown somewhat special, rather rarified, perhaps arcane alongside their simpler preferences. ''What might we like?'' becomes their humble petition.  Whenever I try to answer this complicated query -with its wheels within wheels, its ratchets within ratchets - I try to make a quick mental calculation. Which current shows will they have heard about, shows that they can talk about when they get back home? The shows they've heard about, the sufficiently celebrated ones, will no doubt have been running for some time now. In that case, what shape are they in? Anything like the shape I saw when I went to a final preview or to opening night? How long ago was that - eight months, 14 months - and how long does it take for a show to get tired? Have there been recent cast replacements? How many, and how promising or unpromising? Is it still really safe for me to send my friends to the four or five hits I liked most? I weigh and weigh, trying to take into consideration all of the long-run hazards mentioned by my colleagues in these pages recently.  And you know what? I'm wasting my time. The one question no visiting friend, no ebullient acquaintance from out of town, no eager theatergoer with a week of delights ahead of him, has ever paused to ask me or thought it important to ask me is ''Do you think that show's still fresh?'' No variant thereof has ever dropped from his lips. A professional will ask it. A journalist may ask it. But to your regulation, down-to-earth, cheerful and casual customer it's a question that seems simply not to exist. It's not a matter for his attention. It apparently doesn't occur to him that he is, or should be, in search of a ''perfect'' performance, or a ''fresh'' performance, or even a ''typical'' performance of a given play. When he goes into a theater, the performance he sees becomes the play - and that's that. Strangely, it's possible that he's right.  Question. When is a play ''fresh''? Certainly not on opening night, when the actors are all but on the ropes from their tryout ordeal, when the endless cutting and changing have made company and staff wildly insecure, when the crucial nature of the occasion - critics and all that - absolutely guarantee that the performance cannot possibly be representative. It may be better than representative; it may be electrifying, suddenly supercharged by the presence of all those nervous tensions in one place. But ''fresh''? No.  The second, or postpartum, performance of a new play has long been notorious for revealing the true state of affairs. Despite themselves, the people on stage now collapse from their cumulative efforts, as the company of ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' seems to have done on that unhappy day-after matinee when Bernard Shaw was present (and, explicably, didn't like it). Of course a genuinely responsive first-night audience plus enthusiasm in the press plus lines at the box office will shoot generous amounts of adrenalin into all concerned, buoying them up enough to conceal their fatigue. But they are not now in a ''fresh'' state, they are barely entering a recuperative one.  Two seasons ago a charming revival of ''Oklahoma!'' came to town and, as friends also came to town, I began suggesting they see it. The first group to do so reported loving the show, mentioning in passing that the Will Parker I'd seen had been out. The next group reported loving the show, mentioning in passing that the Laurey I'd seen had been out. The third group - well, someone else's understudy had gone on, I've forgotten whose. All of this, mind you, within a period of six weeks or so. I became curious and, after a few discreet inquiries, I picked up a bleated explanation, second-hand, from a member of the troupe. ''Of course we're all getting laryngitis!,'' this victim exploded, ''We're exhausted from the road tour!'' And so they were, poor dears. From now on - for a time - the actors were going to be resting at home or on stage (push too hard on stage and you'd be the next one down with laryngitis). 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
