20001211
 California Can Withstand Tech Temblors --- Economy's Variety, Exports Should Keep It Growing Faster Than Rest of U.S.   By By Rhonda L. Rundle, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 12, 2000  "California is being affected by powerful forces, and one that may be under-appreciated is how strong the economy is right now," says Brad Williams, senior economist in the state Legislative Analysts' Office, which provides lawmakers with budget and fiscal information. "We're going into 2001 with considerable momentum -- exports are expanding and jobs are still growing," he adds. California's economy, measured by output of goods and services, pulled ahead of Italy this year, which would make the Golden State the world's sixth-largest economy if it were measured as a separate nation.  The burning question is how much the 40% collapse in the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index since March will curb income gains. California budget forecasters estimate such gains account for about a quarter of the projected 11% rise in personal income this year. State tax-withholding payments to the Employment Development Department, an early indicator of the economy's booms and busts, are still strong, Mr. Williams says. He points out that many tech stocks still are trading far higher than pre-1999 levels, allowing employees with long-held options to cash out with sizable gains.  Looking across the nation, "circumstances are present that will bring on recession within the next year with 60% certainty," says Edward Leamer, director of the UCLA forecasting center. In 2001, the U.S. economy will eke out growth of 1.1%, and pick up again to 2.2% in 2002, he says. Among the warning signals he sees are tight labor markets, a slowdown in domestic credit availability and a dependence on foreign capital. A consensus forecast among economists calls for stronger real growth of the U.S. gross domestic product of 3.1%, according to a survey by Blue Chip Economic Indicators, a publication based in Alexandria, Va.   
