20020411
 Taste: Manipulating the Mosaic --- Yet another group is added to the multicultural mix   By By Julia Gorin, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 12, 2002  Some of the messages have been agonizingly direct, aimed at every age group. CBS recently ran a special two-hour version of the Dick Van Dyke mystery series "Diagnosis: Murder" in which his daughter on the show was killed by an angry town because she was married to an Arab. And Nickelodeon sent a 15-year-old all-American girl on an adventure through Islamic-American life during Ramadan. The program was part of a documentary series called "A Walk in Your Shoes," and it followed blond and blue-eyed Nancy, covered in traditional Muslim garb, through her days at a private Muslim school and at an Egyptian family's home, where she became a surrogate member of her new friend's family, praying toward Mecca and fasting. "They're not like the images the media puts forward," Nancy tells young viewers. "That's a stereotype."  Most of the messages are sent indirectly, through a seemingly new quota-imperative. Arab-looking actors and commercial models have shown up everywhere: on a Parents magazine cover, in a Charles Schwab print-ad campaign and on posters for Verizon Wireless. Marketers managed to find a group of hip, Westernized young Arabs for an outdoor party scene in a Coke commercial, before it cut to an African-American wedding. A Western Union pamphlet shows a father and son duo in traditional Middle Eastern or Central Asian attire.  To sell Hewlett-Packard computer services, the company took out an ad in last week's Time magazine, across two pages. Filling the left half was a headshot of a bearded, balding and elegant middle-aged Arab-seeming businessman. About the same time, McGraw-Hill took out a full-page ad in The Wall Street Journal featuring a serious, bespectacled young businessman. He too seemed to be of Middle Eastern descent. (Just in case I was imagining things, I took the liberty of asking the seatmate on my train -- a woman visiting from Ireland, as it turned out -- what nationality the man in the ad might be. She looked carefully and declared neutrally: "I would say . . . Middle Eastern.")   
