19820613
President Reagan isn't running for anything in New Jersey this year, but his economic policies are. As the winners in last week's senatorial primaries move toward their November confrontation, the issue of Reaganomics just might overshadow the public image Republican Representative Millicent Fenwick has built and the one Democrat Frank R. Lautenberg is buying.  If so, the contest over the Senate seat formerly held by Abscam convict Harrison A. Williams would be just the sort of Reagan referendum that conservative Jeffrey Bell hoped his primary run against Mrs. Fenwick would be. The issue proved largely avoidable for Mrs. Fenwick and, for the second time, supply-side was the losing side for the 38-year-old former Reagan speechwriter - Mr. Bell campaigned on it in 1978, defeating the late Senator Clifford Case in the primary but losing to Democrat Bill Bradley that November.  Mr. Lautenberg, the 58-year-old head of a data processing company, took some of the most liberal positions in the nine-candidate Democratic primary. The political newcomer spent more than $1 million of his own money to establish himself as a candidate who would, among other things, try to make sure that every corporation paid at least some income tax. His 26 percent of the vote put him at the top of a field that included former Representatives Andrew Maguire and Joseph LaFante.  Mrs. Fenwick, who took 54 percent of the vote against Mr. Bell, is expected to try to steer the rest of the campaign in the direction that led to her primary victory, stressing her political independence and pro-consumer leanings. Mr. Lautenberg, who goes into the race a slight underdog, will try to sink her with an attack on Reaganomics.  In the congressional races, incumbents won handily or ran unopposed. Representative James A. Courter, the only primary candidate in the country to be endorsed by the President, beat Morris County Freeholder Rodney Frelinghuysen by a 12 percent margin. Mr. Courter was one of several Republican representatives who were drawn out of their districts in last year's Democrat-dominated reapportionment. New Jersey Democrats outnumber Republicans by one member in the House and may stretch that margin in November.  Illustrations: photo of Representative Millicent Fenwick photo of Representative Frank Lautenberg 
