19811122
ALOT of Christmas cards say ''Merry Christmas from our house to your house'' - and this year, more well-wishers will show exactly what they mean by ''our house.''  Instead of Santa Claus, Christmas trees or religious symbols, some families are using illustrations of their own homes, and the houses may be unusual or ordinary, expensive or modest.  ''Why not?'' said Curtis C. Fennell, a Yonkers artist who has been doing house portraits for the last six years. ''Some people think it's strange, but if you really like your house, and spend every weekend working on it, why not? It's your biggest investment. Maybe it's just to say 'look what I've got' or maybe it's just to send out something personal.''  ''Sometimes people who used to use pictures of their kids start using the house after the kids grow up,'' Gayle Dunkleberger, a Katonah artist, said.  The cards can be a bargain compared with commercial cards, but that depends on the cost of the original drawing. Sally Wilson, manager of the Pleasantville branch of The Ink Spot, a printing company, refers customers to a college student who charges only $20 to $30 to do a drawing. The printer charges $2 to reduce it to card size, and for 100 cards on red or green deckle-edged paper, the cost is $9 for printing, $3 for the paper and $8 for the envelopes. The cost goes up for color printing, and down proportionately for larger orders.  Mrs. Dunkleberger does a 12-by-16-inch pen and ink portrait of the house and provides 500 cards for a fee of $150. Karen Kennedy of Chappaqua charges $50 to $75 for the drawing, and the customer can arrange for the printing.  Mr. Fennell considers the original drawing to be a work of art for permanent display and the Christmas cards merely an offshoot, and he charges $300 to $350 for the original. The price depends on what the house looks like.  ''I like detail, and if I do a brick house, I like to put in every brick,'' he said. ''I go crazy with it. If it's stucco or clapboard, it's easier and cheaper.''  But realism has its limits, the artists said, and most people want an idealized picture of their home. The artists usually take photos of the house, or use photos provided by the owner, then visit the house, and then take a few liberties in drawing it.  ''The houses around here have too many trees and I have to leave some out,'' Mrs. Kennedy said. ''I try to get a picture without the garage doors open or the garbage cans showing.''  Mr. Fennell has been asked to put extra items in. One customer had a large, expensive house in Scarsdale that had been featured in House and Garden magazine.  ''I painted the front and he loved it so much he called to get a picture of the back, showing the swimming pool and the beautiful garden,'' he said. ''Then he gave me a picture of a 1981 Excalibur, a fantastic custom-made car, and asked me to paint it in the driveway,'' he said. ''He had bought it, but it hadn't been delivered, and he wanted it in the picture.'' Mr. Fennell has put squirrels in the foreground and a dog running across the lawn, and said he can ''trim lawns and hedges'' in his portraits. If the house is on a city block with close neighbors, he just ''fades them out.''  Some customers paint in a tiny wreath or put a red bow on the door, and Mrs. Wilson recalled a customer who drew in stick figures to represent the family.  The Christmas card trend is the child of two parents: art and commerce. Some homeowners simply want a painting of a house they love, especially when they are leaving it.  Mrs. Dunkleberger, for example, was called two weeks ago by a couple to draw their first home, long after they had moved away. That one probably won't be used on a card, just kept as a remembrance, she said.  Some families call artists to do a picture of a new house, and then decide on cards to show their relatives and friends how it looks, she said. Sometimes husbands or wives commission paintings, have cards printed without showing the original, and then give the original to the spouse as a surprise Christmas gift.  Other drawings are a selling tool for real estate agents. The Julia B. Fee Agency in Scarsdale often has drawings made for use in advertising, and when the house is sold, presents them to the sellers.  The Holmes & Kennedy real estate office in Chappaqua commissions Mrs. Kennedy, wife of one of the partners, Peter Kennedy, to paint the picture and then gives it to the buyer. According to Bonnie Golub, a saleswoman with the agency, the gift is a way of keeping in touch with the buyers, who may recommend the real estate agency to friends or may resell their house in a few years and call on the agency again.  ''Not all buyers are interested,'' Mrs. Golub said. ''If they are transferees, and are going to move away in two or three years, they'd just as soon we gave them a casserole.''  Mrs. Golub had her own house drawn and had hundreds of cards printed so she could use them for short notes and invitations during the year as well as at Christmas. She got so many, in fact, that if she moves before they are used up, she plans to bequeath them to the new owner.  Even when the drawings are made specifically for Christmas cards, people rarely want the pictures to show a snow scene, the artists said. Mrs. Kennedy has done a few that she liked, on blue paper with white snow, but even now, with the leaves off the trees and the lastminute rush to get the pictures done, most people ask the artist to put in foliage.  Nor do their houses have to be beautiful, the artists said. ''I've done charming old houses, like one built in the 1700's with all kinds of additions that went on forever, with huge pine trees, and I've done some houses that are just ordinary,'' Mrs. Kennedy said. ''In my eyes, some may not be wonderful, but still, people are proud of their own homes.'' Bedford Hills Cantitoe Road 10-room, 6-bath contemporary $310,000 Built 1948; pool, tennis, 8 acres; taxes $8,976 Larchmont Mayhew Avenue 9-room, 2 1/2-bath frame Colonial $168,000 Built 1910; beach privileges; taxes $3,695 Mount Kisco Bridge Place 9-room, 2 1/2-bath frame raised ranch $160,000 Built 1965; den, 1 acre; taxes $4,422 Ossining S. Highland Avenue 3-room, 1-bath co-op apartment $28,000 Second floor; $312 monthly Peekskill Eaton Downs 8-room, 2-bath brick split-level $59,000 Built 1960; one-third acre; taxes $3,773 White Plains Oakwood Avenue 8-room, 1-bath frame Victorian $86,000 Built 1920; pantry; taxes $1,156 Sales in Other Areas Trumbull, Conn. Inca Drive 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath Colonial $167,000 1 acre; new construction; taxes unavailable Hillsdale, N.J. Washington Avenue 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath split level $114,850 Fenced grounds, fireplace; taxes $2,314  Illustrations: drawing of Chappaqua by Karen Kennedy drawing by Gayle Dunkelberger 
