19811123
MEXICO CITY, Nov. 22— It began as a Catholic charity, then became a business and is now a national institution, but it is still just a pawnshop, albeit the oldest and largest in the Americas, that helps the poor and bails out the spendthrift.  Every morning outside the 16th-century building that houses the Monte de Piedad in downtown Mexico City, the crowds gather - women with babies in one arm and tattered kitchen appliances in the other, men with perhaps a ring or a watch hidden in a pocket, all of them with an urgent need for money.  After the Easter and Christmas vacations, the waiting line stretches around the block. Like everyone else, Mexicans like to spend now and worry later and the Monte de Piedad is a bridge to the next paycheck.  But with inflation battering the purchasing power of the poor, the Goverment pawnshop and its 30 branches around the country are also serving as a safety net for millions of Mexicans. 'I Need the Money More'  One morning recently, Jorge Luis Santiago and his wife, Julia, brought a blender to the Monte de Piedad. ''I need it, but I need the money more,'' Mrs. Santiago said as she collected $20. Her fouryear-old son was ill and urgently needed medicine, she explained.  Moments later, 9-year-old Manuel Hernandez placed on the counter a battered, plastic-covered radio that was valued at $9 by the pawnbroker. Manuel took the receipt, darted to another line to collect the money and then disappeared into the crowd.  Each year around Mexico, the Monte de Piedad lends money to some five million Mexicans and has a turnover of about $140 million in everything from books, second-hand clothes and electrical goods to jewelry, antiques and cars.  The institution was founded in 1775 by Pedro Romero de Terrero, who bought his Spanish title of Count of Regla with the profits of his Mexican gold and silver mines and then decided to become a benefactor of the poor.  ''The Count appealed to the Catholic conscience for people to donate money as charity, but the foundation almost went bankrupt,'' explained Leopoldo Ramirez Limon, the current director of Monte de Piedad. Board Oversees Operation  Subsequently, the Count of Regla charged interest on loans and then used the income to finance masses offered in the building's chapel to save his soul.  Today, the institution's operation is overseen by a board made up of representatives of both the Government and the private sector, although its director is appointed by the Government. It also runs two schools for indigent girls, an old-age home, public baths, three public assistance centers, automatic laundries in slum areas and, appropriately, a pawnbrokers' academy.  Through its pawning activities, the Monte de Piedad does make a profit. At present, it charges interest rates of 4 percent a month for jewelry, 3 percent for books, appliances, cars and antiques and 2 percent for used clothes. There is no interest on items pawned for less than $12, while customers have five months in which to reclaim their goods before they are auctionned off. Most Goods Reclaimed  Jose Arreguin, head of the appraisals department, said that most goods are reclaimed and only 5 percent are auctioned. He recalled the case of a used car salesman who for years, he said, would pawn a $40,000 diamond ring nearly every week in order to stock his lot.  Mr. Arreguin admitted, though, that the Monte de Piedad also provides a service to burglars, since no proof of ownership is required and the pawnbroker has no way of checking the origin of the merchandise. But he estimated that only about 5 percent of the items were stolen.  At present, the institution is holding 168,000 pieces of jewelry worth some $16 million. One 93-carat sapphire brooch and earrings set valued at $80,000 has been on sale for five months. They were pawned for $40,000 last year.  The Monte de Piedad is not always unsuccessful in finding buyers for its most valuable items. A bracelet with seven Brazilian emeralds was recently sold for $120,000, while a 1964 Mercedes coupe, which had belonged to a former President, went for $40,000. 
