19810106
WASHINGTON, Jan. 5— The process of confirming Cabinet nominees, which begins on Capitol Hill tomorrow, usually results in quick approval of the President's choices with a minimum of conflict. But the confirmation process serves a variety of purposes, and can influence the policies and conduct of the nominees for years to come.  Even if the nominees sail through -and most of President-elect Reagan's choices are expected to do that - they can be rigorously questioned by Senators eager to know the policy direction they plan to take. As Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the minority leader, said today, ''Questions will be asked of all the nominees to get their policy positions on the record.''  And once that record is written, it is often difficult for an official to change course. Mike Hathaway, the new staff director of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, pointed out that if Senators ''did their homework'' and asked the right questions, ''they can insure that the nominees don't go way out of line in carrying out their responsibilities.'' Repent Their Haste  Senators on both sides seem ready to ask some tough questions. ''There's a long history of these being fairly perfunctory hearings,'' said Robert Dove, the Senate parliamentarian, ''but the Senate often repents later about being so perfunctory.''  In particular, said Mr. Dove, senators regretted not having uncovered in 1976 any indication that Bert Lance, President Carter's first director of management and budget, was involved in a conflict of interest. Mr. Lance resigned under fire when such charges developed a year or so after the confirmation.  Four Reagan nominees will face Senate hearings tomorrow: John R. Block, agriculture; Caspar W. Weinberger, Defense; Malcolm Baldrige, Commerce, and Richard S. Schweiker, Health and Human Services. The first controversial choice will appear Wednesday, when James G. Watt, nominated to be Secretary of Interior, comes to Capitol Hill. Mr. Watt, head of a public-interest law firm in Denver, has been criticized by environmentalists as too sympathetic to business. Process Reflects Compromise  The whole confirmation process grows out of a compromise by drafters of the Constitution, who were trying to balance the powers of the legislative and executive branches. The President was given the right to make appointments, but only with the ''advice and consent'' of the Senate. This vague term has been subject to numerous interpretations over the years.  Senator Howard H. Baker Jr. of Tennessee,, the new majority leader, conceded today that the conduct of confirmation hearings had been ''up in the air'' since he came to Congress 14 years ago. Terry F. Lenzner, a Washington lawyer who decined an offer to become special counsel for the Democrats in the Haig hearing, added, ''Trying to establish criteria for the qualifications of nominees would be a very elusive goal.''  But there is general agreement on Capitol Hill with Senator Baker's statement, ''There is a presumption that the President has wide latitude in choosing his Cabinet.'' That presumption runs so deep that only eight Cabinet nominees have ever been rejected by the Senate, only two of those in this century.  The questioning that begins tomorrow will focus in part on the personal character of the nominees. As Floyd Riddick, former parliamentarian of the Senate, put it: ''They will determine whether there are any bugs that might embarrass the Government later. In a sense it's a fishing expedition.''  One famous hearing was in 1952, when harsh Senate questioning forced Charles E. Wilson, President Eisenhower's nominee for Secretary of Defense, to divest himself of his large holdings in General Motors before his confirmation.  Mr. Hathaway said: ''The hearings also give the nominees a chance to understand the role of the Senate. It's an educative process. They often come up here feeling that the President and Cabinet run the country, and that the Congress stands by waiting for orders.'' 
