19820628
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, June 27— Milka Planinc, the first female Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, is a businesslike politician whose overriding concern is the ailing state of the nation's economy.  Continued high inflation, sluggish production, unemployment and Yugoslavia's foreign debt are among the eonomic questions at the top of the agenda of the 12th congress of the Communist Party, being held here this weekend.  ''We've got to solve our economic problems soon because we cannot live on short-term credit,'' the Prime Minister said during her first meeting with the chiefs of diplomatic missions last week.  Mrs. Planinc (the name is pronounced plah-NEENTZ), a longtime party member who was elected Prime Minister on May 16, was virtually unknown in Belgrade's diplomatic circles. Diplomats who met her recently were generally impressed.  International Debut in May  The new Prime Minister's international debut came at the end of May with the visit of the Greek Prime Minister, Andreas Papandreou. The visit was described by Greek sources as ''positive on both sides.'' Mr. Papandreou was followed by the Canadian Prime Minister, Pierre Elliott Trudeau.  Last week the new Prime Minister presented to Parliament the Government's so-called long-term economic stabilization program. There appeared to be no changes in the basic policy of selfmanagement and nonalignment but the emphasis was on greater efficiency, more discipline and continued sacrifices.  Later the influential Belgrade daily Politika asked the Prime Minister to be ''more specific.'' ''To carry out the basic long-term program of economic stabilization, all the citizens should help work on it, but they ought to believe in it and to believe in it they have to understand it,'' Politika said. 'A Very Clear Mind'  Mrs. Planinc's defenders insist she does not have to be an economist as long as she knows how to delegate authority and assume responsibility, and the impression so far is that she knows.  ''Milka has a very clear mind as a leader,'' says one of her close associates. ''She hears everybody out and then makes up her mind rapidly and decisively.''  The Prime Minister is backed by a strong economic team that includes Deputy Prime Ministers Zvone Dragan, Borisav Srebric and Mijat Sukovic, Agriculture Secretary Milorad Stanojevic, Finance Secretary Joze Florjancic, Secretary for Internal Economic Questions Janko Smole and the Secretary for Foreign Trade, Milenko Bojanic.  In the only interview she has given so far, just before taking office, Mrs. Planinc told Politika that overinvestment and overspending were among the most important causes of the country's economic difficulties. Another mistake, she said, was ''closing'' the economy. Points to Two Mistakes  ''It is wrong to protect one's own industry from more competitive world producers,'' she said, pointing to the examples of the Yugoslav textile and footwear industries, which have succeeded in growing stronger through competition.  Mistakes have also been made in dealing with Kosovo, she said, referring to Yugoslavia's divisive ethnic nationalism, particularly in Kosovo, the southern province inhabited largely by Albanians. She charged that the former Kosovo leadership, which has been ousted since last year's serious enthic riots, had made unrealistic demands on the nation and misspent money.  She pointed out that Croatia, once troubled by nationalist strains, was now ''an element of cohesion in Yugoslavia.'' The Prime Minister comes from Croatia and as president of the party's central committee there since 1971, she is generally credited with having kept things in order, providing enough autonomy while emphasizing integration.  Born in Drnis, in the Dalmatia region of Croatia, on Nov. 21, 1924, she is a graduate of the higher school of administration. In 1941, like many other young Yugoslav women of her generation, she joined the Partisans and has played an active role in party politics since 1949.  Illustrations: Photo of Milka Planinc 
