19811222
PARAMUS, N.J., Dec. 19— It was nearly 11 o'clock on an uncomfortably cold night, but inside the Toys ''R'' Us store 19 electronic cash registers were chirping like a swarm of June crickets.  Motorists trolled the parking lot for parking spaces. Customers streamed from the store, laboring under the weight of toy boxes or struggling to make overloaded shopping carts move in a desired direction. The din of hundreds of shoppers and the bustle at the checkout counters gave the toy store the air of a vast gambling casino or the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.  With Christmas imminent, shoppers are in a buying frenzy, but no more than they have been for weeks at this suburban toy store. ''People may be forgoing the car payment,'' said a spokesman for the store, Frank McNaney, ''or paying the mortgage late, but they're buying toys. Recession or no, they don't want their children to be disappointed on Christmas morning.'' He said the store would have its biggest sales year ever.  Customers were moving Atari video game systems out the front door almost as fast as the semi-trailer trucks could unload them in back - the $136.84 price tag seemingly engendering little resistance. ''It's a lot of money,'' one father reasoned as he purchased one of the video systems for his 10-year-old son, ''but an electric train was a big investment when I was a boy.'' Another father confided that he hoped to get as much use out of the video game as the child receiving it.  ''Where is AT-AT?'' shopper Cindy Bigsby asked a clerk who was taking a blow in the rear from a shopping cart at the time. The clerk seemed accustomed to being struck in the nearly impassable aisles of dueling shopping carts, and accustomed as well to Mrs. Bigsby's oddsounding question. AT-AT, as any child knows, is the immensely popular copy of the All Terrain Armored Transport that appeared in the film ''The Empire Strikes Back.'' It sells for $40 to $60 in toy stores in the New York area and, here as elsewhere, was out of stock. ''Oh God,'' Mrs. Bigsby said, ''I have to have it.''  The clerk said shoppers were desperate to find AT-AT, as well as several other toys that were among this season's favorites: U.S. Trucking, a slot car track with toy semi-trailer trucks; the Asteroids and Space Invaders video game cartridges, and Star Wars action figures. One clerk said a shopper had offered him $5 just to call her when the next shipment of AT-AT's arrived.  Mrs. Bigsby was even more chagrined to find that the Star Wars figures were likewise sold out. ''Darth Vader?'' the clerk said. ''Are you kidding? People snap those up before we can hang them on the racks.'' Mrs. Bigsby ran her fingers through her hair and sighed, ''Oh God.'' More than 100 million of the action figures have been sold since the ''Star Wars'' film was released in 1978, and the population of these four-inch posable plastic figures might well exceed that of the United States of America in the near future.  Mrs. Bigsby resumed her furious search for the right toys among the bewildering assortment of 18,000 different items in the 43,000-square-foot store. ''People are O.K. for the first hour or two in the store,'' Mr. McNaney said. ''Then you start seeing grandparents sitting on boxes at the ends of the aisles with their eyes glazed over. They become overwhelmed.''  Just such a grandfather was seeking refuge in the aisle featuring globes and microscopes, where the population of shoppers was relatively sparse. He sensed that his grandson wouldn't want either of those, nor the Ant Farm nor the electric frog hatchery. ''What do you get a 5-year-old?'' he asked a busy clerk.  The clerk offered several suggestions, including slot cars; radiocontrolled boats and cars; a framed photograph of the ''General Lee,'' the automobile that stars in the ''Dukes of Hazzard'' television show; a Pork Chop Hill play set, and Clyde's Car Crusher, which ''turns cars and trucks into blocks of scrap metal before your eyes.'' The elderly man thanked the clerk and rose to seek them.  He remarked: ''It's a different world than the five-and-dime where we used to get toys. All these electric tricycles you don't need legs for and all the electronics.''  One woman was looking at prices on the globes, ''because I don't want my son becoming a vegetable with those video games.'' Another son with her on the shopping trip tried to dissuade her, perhaps fearing that he too was in line for such a gift.  In the hand-held electronic game section, a woman examined a Merlin game for her son, but her husband said that a more practical gift might be the electronic Horse Race Analyzer next to it.  Two women shopping together for dolls became giddy as they went through the several hundred models on display. ''Look at this one,'' one woman said laughingly to the other. ''This one says it has 'real tan lines.' ''  ''How about an Oo la la! Sasson doll?'' the other said. ''Or the Jordache fashion doll?'' And they noted that there was one doll that, mercifully, just crawled away.  A couple with two loaded shopping carts explained that they had six children. ''Christmas is murder,'' the man said. The shopping carts were becoming so thick that they seemed to form an unbroken electrical circuit from entrance to exit. Mrs. Bigsby grimaced as she squeezed down an aisle toward the remote-control cars.  The befuddled grandfather had reached a decision. ''I may be way out in left field, but I got him a sled,'' he said, making a sliding motion in the air with his hand. ''A sled,'' he repeated, and broke out in a smile.  Illustrations: Photo of Toys ''R'' Us 
