19820708
International Plans to use American troops to aid the departure of Palestinian guerrillas from west Beirut and to insure the safety of the Americans were pressed by the Reagan Administration. Officials said they had been advised through diplomatic channels not to take seriously the cold public reaction of Palestinian leaders to the evacuation plan. (Page A1, Column 6.) Israel kept up its bombardment and blockade of west Beirut amid signs that the peace negotiations were still snagged over details of when and how the Palestinian guerrillas would leave Lebanon. (A8:1-2.)  The Falkland war has prompted Britain to make changes in its military system, but not to make major changes in its Atlantic fleet or commitment to NATO. The Defense Ministry has decided to replace all the aircraft and ships lost in the fighting, in some cases by reversing plans to take vessels out of service, and to improve the quality of equipment being designed or built. (A3:4-6.) An effort to stem rabies by sprinkling the Swiss countryside with chicken heads containing live rabies vaccine appears to have eradicated the disease over a wide area of the country. Foxes are the chief carriers of rabies in Europe. (A1:1-2.) National Internal criticism of police practices has stirred a controversy. The nation's largest police association has threatened Patrick V. Murphy, a former New York City Police Commissioner, with censure, expulsion or suspension for making ''derogatory statements'' against its members, including an assertion that racism persists in many police departments. Mr. Murphy replied that the charges brought by the international association of police chiefs were designed to suppress dissent through a closed hearing. (A1:2.) Minimum mandatory sentences for violent crimes have been imposed in several states. Pennsylvania now requires minimum mandatory five-year sentences for anyone convicted of a violent crime with a firearm or on public transport and for repeat violent offenders. The state is also introducing or planning to adopt an array of other measures also designed to curb violent crime. (A1:3-5.) Public television may lose all Federal funds under a recommendation by a Reagan Administration panel. The panel said it did not agree with a proposal ''to continue Federal financing of public broadcasting for the indefinite future.'' (C18:4-6.) Penalties for using marijuana would be abolished under a recommendation by a panel of experts appointed by the National Academy of Sciences. However, the proposal was challenged by the chief of the academy and rejected by the Federal agency that financed the study. (A12:1.) A mixed report on the Postal Service was issued by an agency commissioned by the service to evaluate its performance since 1971, when Congress established the Postal Service as a public enterprise. The study said the service had cut costs and improved productivity, but, in doing so, had sacrificed employee courtesy and customer services. (B13:4-6.) There is uncertainty in Arizona and New Mexico whether the two states can continue to absorb wave after wave of emigres and avoid the urban problems that prompted many of them to flee the industrial centers of the North. (B12:3-6.) Metropolitan Uniformed workers demonstrated in an effort to persuade New York City to increase its wage offer for a new contract. About 8,000 off-duty police officers, firefighters and correction officers marched slowly from Union Square down lower Broadway to City Hall, where they held a rally. (A1:1.) A toxic waste dump-cancer link was suggested in New Jersey. A study by the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey found mortality rates from cancer among white males living near such dumps in three counties was 25 to 50 percent above the national average. The university has been updating a study by the National Cancer Institute in 1972 that was said to have found that all of New Jersey was a cancer ''hot spot.'' (B1:6.) A major auto insurance fraud was reported by New York State officials. They said that a large concern, Claridge Brokerage, had misappropriated premiums paid by thousands of motorists, generating losses estimated at $4 million to $6 million to the assigned risk plan, in which all the state's auto insurers participate. As a result, they said, all motorists had to pay higher charges. (B2:5-6.) A building renovation program can be continued despite contentions that state legislation authorizing the program expired on June 1, according to New York City's Corporation Council, Frederick A.O. Schwarz Jr. He expressed the view that the city could legally continue to operate the program, known as J-51, which provides tax benefits to spur rehabilitation of rundown buildings. (A1:3-4.) A lawsuit over defective ambulances was filed by New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation. Four months ago, it said it had arranged for the faults to be corrected by the manufacturer. The agency seeks $2.5 million in damages for the defects in 40 new ambulances bought last year from Prestige Vehicles Inc. (B3:5-6.)  Business Digest, Page Page D1 
