19810519
WASHINGTON, May 18— Ernest W. Lefever, President Reagan's nominee to be Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, described himself today as a ''confirmed do-gooder'' and a ''compassionate realist'' who abhors violations of human rights wherever they occur.  Testifying in confirmation hearings before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Mr. Lefever said that the Carter Administration's policy of denouncing human rights violations by friendly foreign governments had been ''less than effective.'' He vowed, if confirmed, to pursue a strategy of ''quiet diplomacy'' to correct such abuses.  ''I don't regard myself as a one-man Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval, granting or withholding my blessing,'' Mr. Lefever declared in the packed hearing room.  At the end of the hearing tonight, Mr. Lefever acknowledged a connection between the Ethics and Policy Center, a tax-free research and publication organization of which he is president, and Nestle S.A., the Swiss-based corporation that makes about 50 percent of the infant formula sold in the third world, according to a committee staff member who was present at the hearing.  Under questioning by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, Mr. Lefever testified that a friend, who was also a lawyer for Nestle, had helped him disseminate a study by his center that basically supported Nestle's position on the international marketing of infant formulas. When first questioned by Senator Dodd, Mr. Lefever declined to identify this friend but after a short ''medical recess'' that he had requested, he said the lawyer's name was Thomas Ward.  Nestle has contributed to the center but Mr. Lefever and his supporters have previously characterized the association between the center's study and the corporation as a coincidence.  Earlier, confronted by hostile questioning from the committee's Democrats, Mr. Lefever retreated from previous statements that had indicated a deep skepticism toward human rights policy and the job he is expected to fill.  He told the Senators that he ''goofed'' two years ago in advocating before a House subcommittee the repeal of laws establishing a ''human rights standard or condition.''  ''I've changed my position under the impact of new insights, wisdom and experience,'' he said, calling his previous statement ''overly flat.''  Mr. Lefever said that although the United States deplores ''genocide, aggression, external subversion, terrorism'' and other violations of human rights ''by any government,'' the Soviet Union was the ''greatest violator of human rights and the greatest disturber of world peace.''  Despite prodding from the Democrats, Mr. Lefever repeatedly declined to mention other nations, such as Chile, Argentina, South Korea and the Philippines, that have been accused by international organizations of similar abuses.  ''I don't normally name countries,'' he said. ''That's not my style.''  The response led Senator Alan Cranston, Democrat of California, to say, ''The symbolic and substantive duties of the assistant secretary for human rights are too important to allow the position to be warped into becoming simply a bully pulpit for Red-baiting.'' When the chairman of the committee, Senator Charles H. Percy, Republican of Illinois, said the job required an ''outspoken advocate'' for human rights, Mr. Lefever responded, ''My job is to help sensitize the entire foreign policy establishment rather than play a Sir Galahad role going around the world on personal missions.'' 
