20070402
 EuroLinks Daily View: Iberia's Investor Search Reflects Coming Squeeze Online edition  By Connolly, Michael, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 3, 2007  Now, as [Read Yaroslav Trofimov] reports, while the cash that fuels the boom mostly comes from the Persian Gulf's oil bonanza, increasingly sophisticated Muslim communities in fast-growing Asian countries like Malaysia are beginning to influence the Arab heartland, offering a vivid example that an embrace of the global economy can coexist with Islam. Malaysia's cosmopolitan capital of Kuala Lumpur, a metropolis of glittering skyscrapers connected by futuristic monorail trains, is teeming these days with Arab tourists who gawk at the Petronas Towers, until recently the world's tallest buildings.  SYRIA'S PRICE: Behind the White House's opposition to congressional efforts to reach out to Syria is the fact that Damascus hasn't been receptive to back-channel offers of Western-Syrian cooperation. Britain, for one, is said to have found Damascus's price for rapprochement too high, particularly its wishes to be shielded from the United Nations investigation into the Hariri murder to have a more direct role in Lebanon's affairs. Nonetheless, with Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi due to meet President Bashar Assad in Damascus Wednesday in what she calls a bid to gain Syrian support in combating terrorism inside Iraq, Lebanon and the Palestinian territories, Congress is increasing pressure on the Bush administration to engage Syria in hopes of breaking its military and strategic alliance with Tehran.  KNIVES FOR BROWN: As Tony Blair's remaining time as Britain's prime minister grows shorter, the knives drawn around his heir apparent are getting longer. Our editorial writers say it's no longer unthinkable that Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown might be evicted from 10 Downing Street before he ever moves in. The safe money still says he will replace Mr. Blair as Labour Party leader, and thus prime minister, sometime this spring or summer, if only because all the other contenders seem woefully inadequate. Yet it appears that Labour's well-laid plans for a smooth succession from Blair to Brown are going awry.   
