20050920
 Moss Proves Too Edgy for Retailer   By Patrick, Aaron O, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 21, 2005  The retailer initially stuck by the 31-year-old Ms. [Kate Moss]. On Saturday, the company told the Associated Press that Ms. Moss had acknowledged her drug taking and apologized for breaking her contractual obligation to be "healthy, wholesome and sound." H&M was giving her a "second chance," an H&M spokeswoman said, and would continue to use her in its ads.  A spokeswoman for H&M, Liv Asarnoj, said its initial decision was "the first thought before we had time to evaluate the situation." She added: "There should be no doubt" that the retailer is "strongly against drugs."  Until now, that has made Ms. Moss attractive to advertisers seeking a combination of beauty and street credibility. "Kate Moss has always been a fairly good bet [for advertisers] because she was edgy but was an incredibly responsible and professional person," said Grant Duncan, the United Kingdom chief executive of ad agency Publicis, a unit of Paris-based Publicis Groupe. "She was at the coolest parties at 3 a.m. but was always on the right side of public approval."  The retailer initially stuck by the 31-year-old Ms. [Kate Moss]. On Saturday, the company told the Associated Press that Ms. Moss had acknowledged her drug taking and apologized for breaking her contractual obligation to be "healthy, wholesome and sound." H&M was giving her a "second chance," an H&M spokeswoman said, and would continue to use her in its ads.  A spokeswoman for H&M, Liv Asarnoj, said its initial decision was "the first thought before we had time to evaluate the situation." She added: "There should be no doubt" that the retailer is "strongly against drugs."  Until now, that has made Ms. Moss attractive to advertisers seeking a combination of beauty and street credibility. "Kate Moss has always been a fairly good bet [for advertisers] because she was edgy but was an incredibly responsible and professional person," said Grant Duncan, the United Kingdom chief executive of ad agency Publicis, a unit of Paris-based Publicis Groupe. "She was at the coolest parties at 3 a.m. but was always on the right side of public approval."   
