19810516
To the Editor:  With the New York region's economic well-being hanging in the balance, the State Legislature can afford no further delay in enacting comprehensive transit legislation. Here are six things needed to arrest the decline of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's beleagured transit network. [ 1) Provide capital funds to rehabilitate the system: Documented needs exceed $5 billion over five years. They should be met through a combination of increased state, city and Federal funds, fare levels that keep pace with inflation and, as a last resort, the one-time issuance of capital bonds. The major share of these bonds should be repaid in future years through state appropriations.  (2) Increase M.T.A. accountability: Legislation should direct the M.T.A. to prepare multi-year capital and maintenance plans which establish transit spending priorities, offer a rationale for their selection and relate proposed projects to quantified service goals and objectives. The bill should also require submission of an annual spending report to explain where each year's money went and what was accomplished.  (3) Cut red tape in capital spending: Legislation should eliminate overlapping agency reviews, should appropriate state transit funds directly to the M.T.A. and should ease government procedures for initiating low-cost rehabilitation projects.  (4) Create a dedicated source of operating assistance: Defeat of the 2 percent oil company gross receipts tax, now under legal challenge, would warrant swift passage of an equivalent transitfunding measure. Beyond this, the Legislature should consider such options as an auto registration surcharge or a change in state gasoline tax formulas to meet critical statewide transit and roadway rehabilitation needs.  (5) Curb labor costs: The state has a legitimate role in insuring that inefficient labor practices are not subsidized at taxpayers' expense. Our lawmakers should consider legislation that would phase out state transit assistance to those systems whose future labor contracts perpetuate costly work rule practices. (6) Revise management structure: There is real need to decentralize M.T.A. control over day-to-day operations of its subway, bus and rail systems and to improve management efficiency.  A bill proposed earlier by the M.T.A. would leave the authority without the services of a strong executive director, or chief operating officer, to whom the heads of the constituent agencies (i.e., the New York City Transit Authority and the commuter railroads) would regularly report. Advancing this proposal would be contrary to sound business practice and the advice of the state's own 1979 M.T.A. Management Study. Decentralizing operations requires only administrative changes, not new legislation. ADRIAN DEWIND MORTON J. GETMAN New York, April 24, 1981 The writers are, respectively, chairman of the Natural Resources Defense Council and executive vice president of the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Both helped organize the Greater New York Public Transit Coalition. 
