19810111
WINTERBROTHERS A Season at the Edge of America. By Ivan Doig. 246 pp. New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. $10.95. By RAYMOND A. SOKOLOV  JAMES GILCHRIST SWAN ran away from proper Boston in 1850, left his wife and two children and, after a voyage round Cape Horn, eventually settled in our country's upper left-hand corner, on the Washington coast. Ivan Doig left Montana roughly a century later, collected a Ph.D. in American frontier history and made his home, as Swan had, on America's wet, westernmost shore.  Mr. Doig began to write about this ''edge of America'' in magazines and in a previous book, ''This House of Sky.'' Then, in the ''grey archival boxes at the University of Washington Library,'' he discovered the diaries in which Swan had scribbled two-and-a-half million words between 1859 and his death in 1890.  How Swan found the time to write is an awesome puzzle, considering that he filled his life with scads of ''careers,'' from exploration to Indian ethnography, to teaching, to oyster wholesaling, to artifact collection for the Smithsonian. And he also took substantial time out from this panoramic industry for very serious drinking. Yet, besotted or not, Swan wrote - wrote with a loose-jointed, gabby verve and high intelligence about frontier life.  One winter, he shared a house with a whaling captain who tried to bake a skunk, but neglected to clean it properly, with the result that ''it smelt so unsavory when the bake-kettle was opened that he was forced to throw skunk and kettle into the river, which he did with a sigh, remarking what a pity it was that it smelled so strong, when it was baked so nice and brown.''  Fascinated by such stuff, Ivan Doig read deeply in Swan's diaries, looking for companionship in his own ''westering'' adventure on the flanks of the Olympia Range, by the waters of Puget Sound. Swan had tramped where Mr. Doig now hiked with his wife, Carol, and though the life on that land had changed enormously, Mr. Doig felt a mystical brotherhood with Swan, which he has exemplified in this double diary, matching passages culled from Swan with parallel moments from his own life.  For 90 days, the space of a recent winter, he interspersed his own journal entries with appropriate snippets from Swan's vast memoir. Sometimes the exercise is forced; sometimes it pushes Mr. Doig into overwriting. But the occasional patches of dullness or lushness should deter no one from devouring this gorgeous tribute to a man and a region unjustly neglected heretofore. The reader has the pleasure of encountering two contrasting styles and two angles of view, both infused with the fresh air and spirit of the Northwest.  For example, on Day 11, Mr. Doig and his wife went to Dungeness Spit's ''rough spine of driftwood'' and ---------------------------------------------------------------------  Raymond A. Sokolov's most recent book is ''Wayward Reporter,'' a biography of A.J. Liebling. saw an eagle. He writes: ''Above the two of us the eagle glides a complete slow circle, as if studying from the corner of his eye our surprising plaid skins.'' Swan also visited Dungeness, the ''longest natural sandspit in the United States; driest point on the West Coast north of San Diego.'' Or as Mr. Doig puts it: ''A thin hook of desert snagging the water.'' Swan, when he was there in January of 1880, found three feet of snow: ''Our boat's deck was loaded with snow and the lighthouse tower on its northeast side had a thick coating from the base to the lantern.'' The Doigs left Dungeness, returned home to play poker. Swan stayed aboard ship with his traveling companions - ''devoting our energies to the successful performance of a game of seven-up, or all-four or old sledge, as that wonderful combination of cards is variously termed.''  Where Ivan Doig's and Swan's lives do not much mesh is with Indians. Swan lived among them and observed them. Mr. Doig, lacking such opportunities, contents himself with anthologizing Swan's Indian writing. Witness this terse masterpiece of ethnography: ''Called on Kive-ges-lines this PM to see her twins which were born on the 10th. They were pretty babies but the Indians are sure to kill one. Next day: One of the twins died during the night as I predicted. The Indian who told me said. ... 'It died from want of breath' which I think very probable. These Haidas like the Makahs have a superstition that twins bring ill luck.''  Ivan Doig's winter with Swan draws to a well-wrought close. He goes with his wife to Neah, where Swan lived among the Makahs, finds them thriving, with a new greenhouse (''progress I am glad to see from Swan's depot of potatoes''). The Doigs are looking for Swan's modest monument to himself. In 1859, as he described it, he ''worked carving a swan on a sandstone cliff with my initials under it.'' Doig locates the carving, barely eroded, ''tail fluted high to a jaunty point. ... The stone dot that puts period - and seed of the ellipsis for whatever continuation is on its way - to this winter.''  Illustrations: drawing 
