20050517
After a drumbeat of criticism from the Bush administration and others, Newsweek magazine yesterday went beyond an apology it issued Sunday and retracted an article published May 1 that stated that American interrogators at Guant?mo Bay, Cuba, had tried to rattle Muslim detainees by flushing a Koran down a toilet.  The original article was blamed for inciting widespread protests and riots in the Muslim world, where desecration of the Koran is viewed as an incendiary act, and where at least 17 people were killed in the ensuing violence.  ''Based on what we know now, we are retracting our original story that an internal military investigation had uncovered Koran abuse at Guant?mo Bay,'' the statement from Newsweek said.  The carefully worded retraction came after the White House said the Newsweek article had damaged the image of the United States abroad. It reflected the severity of consequences that even one sentence in a brief news article can have at a time of intense anti-American sentiment overseas and political polarization, as well as extreme distrust of the mainstream media at home.  Mark Whitaker, editor of Newsweek, said in an interview that the magazine was retracting the part of the article saying sources told Newsweek that a coming military report would say interrogators had flushed a holy book down the toilet to unnerve detainees. As it turned out, Newsweek now says, there was one source. And Mr. Whitaker said that because that source had ''backed away'' from his original account, the magazine could ''no longer stand by'' it.  ''I did not want to be in the position of splitting hairs,'' Mr. Whitaker said, ''to look like we were being evasive or not fully forthcoming.''  The magazine's retraction was the latest step in a complicated and fast-moving drama that involved a disparate cast of players, including one of the nation's top investigative news reporters and a cricket star in Pakistan. In the span of a few days, it has added a new dimension to the journalistic debate about anonymous sources as well as new questions about how the United States treats captives from the Muslim world.  In the interview, Mr. Whitaker contrasted his action with that of CBS News when it refused to back down immediately last year from a report that raised questions about President Bush's National Guard service.  ''Clearly it became a problem for CBS because people thought they weren't acknowledging that they screwed up,'' Mr. Whitaker said.  He continued: ''Unlike CBS, we felt we were being extremely forthcoming by publishing all the details and publishing the Pentagon's denials and saying we committed an error. But then it seemed that people felt like we weren't apologizing. In order for people to understand we had made an error, we had to say 'retraction' because that's the word they were looking for.''  Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, said yesterday morning that he found it ''puzzling'' that Newsweek had not retracted the article. ''There is a certain journalistic standard that should be met,'' he said, ''and in this case it was not.''  Mr. McClellan and Mr. Whitaker said that no senior White House officials had spoken privately to Newsweek's management to seek a retraction. After Newsweek retracted the article in the afternoon, Mr. McClellan called it a ''good first step.''  Mr. McClellan and other administration officials blamed the Newsweek article for setting off the anti-American violence that swept Afghanistan and Pakistan. ''The report had real consequences,'' Mr. McClellan said. ''People have lost their lives. Our image abroad has been damaged.''  But only a few days earlier, in a briefing on Thursday, Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had said that the senior commander in Afghanistan believed the protests had stemmed from that country's reconciliation process.  ''He thought it was not at all tied to the article in the magazine,'' General Myers said.  In the interview, Mr. Whitaker expressed frustration at the Pentagon for not informing the magazine of questions about the accuracy of the original account until about 10 days after it was published. He added that the magazine was continuing to report on the underlying accusations of Koran desecration.  An article in the current Newsweek said the original report, written by a veteran investigative reporter, Michael Isikoff, and the magazine's national security correspondent, John Barry, relied on a ''longtime reliable source'' who told Mr. Isikoff that a new report on prisoner abuses at Guant?mo would include a mention of a Koran being flushed down a toilet. The magazine said it showed the original article to a Pentagon official who challenged one aspect of the story but not the report about the desecration of the Koran.  Because of other reports about prisoner abuses there, the magazine said, the toilet incident ''seemed shocking but not incredible.''  In fact, complaints from released inmates that the Koran had been thrown into a toilet go back at least two years. 1 2 3 NEXT PAGE > 
