19810217
WASHINGTON, Feb. 16— Two American citizens were held by Yemen for a year on charges of being spies in a case never disclosed by the State Department.  The two men were finally released on Feb. 8, after months of behind-the-scenes efforts by the State Department, which had never revealed that the two men were imprisoned.  Both of the Americans, William Thomas Jr., whose home is in Madrid, and DuWayne Terrell of Colorado Springs, Colo., said they had been tortured by Yemeni authorities in an effort to extract confessions from them.  Mr. Terrell, 24 years old, said that after a month of beatings he had confessed that he was an Israeli spy. In his confession, which he says was fraudulent, he said that Mr. Thomas, 60, whom he knew, was an agent working for the Central Intelligence Agency. Mr. Thomas was then arrested and also tortured. He says that he was never a spy and that he did not confess to being one.  Seven Yemenis, three of them Jews. were also arrested and charged with being part of the spy plot. Three of the Yemenis were released on Jan. 14, but as far as the two Americans know the four others are still imprisoned.  A State Department official said that the Yemeni Government had not given a reason for releasing the two Americans. But both men said they believed that the Government had finally decided the evidence against them was not sufficient for holding them any longer.  The United States has had cordial relations with Yemen, which is strategically situated at the southwestern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, though not as intimate as those with neighboring Saudi Arabia.  The Yemen Arab Republic produces no oil but it is sandwiched between the conservative kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the pro-Soviet nation of Southern Yemen and is just across the narrow strait of Bab el Mandeb from Marxist-ruled Ethiopia.  American officials have been concerned over periodic reports of merger discussions between the two Yemens. Generally, the United States has deferred to Saudi Arabia on matters relating to Yemen and, because of Saudi concerns, the Government sent large shipments of military equipment to Yemen during the Carter Administration.  Mr. Thomas, reached by telephone at his home in Madrid, said that he and Mr. Terrell were ''tried by a National Security Court'' in Yemen in September.  ''We were never given the verdict,'' he said, ''but later we learned that the court had found us all not guilty.'' Mr. Thomas, who was held for 10 months, said that the State Department did everything in its power to gain an early release, but that its power was ''insufficient.''  ''There's very little you can do against a sovereign nation,'' he said. Mr. Terrell said he was arrested by the Yemenis while visiting the burial site of Salaam Shabazzi, a Yemeni Jew who became a well-known folklorist and poet in Israel. Mr. Terrell had lived in Israel for the previous four years while working there for the Southern Baptist Church. While in Israel he established close ties to the Yemeni Jewish community, which spurred his interest in visiting the country.  For about a month after his arrival in Yemen, Mr. Terrell worked for Mr. Thomas, who had lived in Sana, the Yemeni capital, since December 1977 and was employed by Aeromaritime Inc., a Washingtonbased marketing concern. Visit Made by U.S. Consul  Nine months after Mr. Terrell was arrested on Feb. 4, 1980, he received his first visit from an American official, John Vessey, the American Consul in Sana. He said that George M. Lane, the United States Ambassador to Yemen, had made three visits to Ali Abdullah Saleh, the Yemeni President, and on the third visit was told that the Americans would be released.  The quiet diplomacy involved is in sharp contrast to the public handling of the case of the 52 American hostages held in Iran. President Saleh apparently orderd the two Americans released on Jan. 20, the day that the Iranians released their hostages, but it took some time before his orders were carried out.  Mr. Terrell, who is now at his parents' home in Colorado Springs, said he had been told by Ambassador Lane after his release that the negotiations had reached a point at which the State Department was faced with the question whether to sacrifice relations with the strategic country for the sake of the two Americans. Letters Written in Hebrew  ''They suspected I was a spy,'' Mr. Terrell said. ''I had letters for Israel on me written in Hebrew. They were nothing incriminating, but it made them think I was with Israeli intelligence.''  He was taken to the city of Taiz, where he was interrogated for two months and subjected to torture. He was hung upside down by his leg irons for hours at a time, he said. One night his guards beat the soles of his feet. He passed out five times and lost four toenails, he said.  He was compelled, he went on, to write a totally fabricated statement saying that he was a spy. In it he named Mr. Thomas as being part of the American spy community, and the older man was detained on April 6. 'No Idea Why I Was Arrested'  ''Initially I had no idea why I was arrested,'' Mr. Thomas said. He was then told he was accused of being an American spy. ''I denied it all and was then confronted with this kid who had been tortured into accusing me falsely,'' he said.  Mr. Thomas said he had been tortured four or five times while being kept in solitary confinement in the headquarters of the Yemeni secret police. He, too, was suspended upside down by leg irons for hours and was beaten.  Following a secret trial before a military court, the two men were transferred to Sana's general prison, where they were held until their release eight days ago. 
