20000209
 In France, an Unlikely Iconoclast --- Mr. Thevenet's White Wines Are Too Sweet for Officials; `The Last of the Mohicans'   By By Jacqueline Friedrich, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 10, 2000  We finish with the most exceptional of three versions of Macon-Clesse Mr. [Jean] Thevenet made in the excellent 1995 vintage. It is impressively rich, with 14% alcohol. And it is delectably sweet, made uniquely from grapes attacked by the fungal parasite botrytis, the "noble rot" that makes Sauternes so luscious. A shimmering gold, the wine tastes of honey mixed with pineapple, peaches and lemon zests. It is complex, fresh as a waterfall, expensive (around $80 a bottle) and stunning in every sense of the word, not least of which because it is a Macon.  Most of the wine made in Macon is white, based on the chardonnay grape which some believe to have been born in a tiny village of the same name in the heart of the zone. The most famous wine appellation from the Maconnais is Pouilly Fuisse, whose hills are faintly visible on the horizon beyond Mr. Thevenet's vines. The bulk of the region's wine, however, falls into one of the Macon appellations -- either simply Macon, or Macon-Villages with or without the name of a village (like Clesse) attached. And, it must be said, most Macon wine is less than celestial. Conventionally regarded as the poor man's white Burgundy, Macon is a perennial on the bargain section of French wine lists. (In shops, you can usually find Macons for between $7 and $9.) Generally crisp, dry and neutral, with a whiff of the mass-produced about it, Macon might be considered an underachiever from which no one expects very much.  Mr. Thevenet, regarded by many French wine critics as Macon's best producer, turns absolutely every assumption about this appellation on its head. His wines, which are imported into the U.S. by Alain Junguenet, are produced from 16 hectares of vines. In a good vintage he makes four different wines, about 80,000 bottles in all, starting with a Macon-Vire Emilian Gillet from a plot of vines in the commune of Vire, a simultaneously ample and tightly knit wine ($14). Then comes Domaine de la Bongran Macon-Clesse Tradition at $19. The creamy '96 recalled liqueurs like framboise in its concentration. Indeed, it was a creme de chardonnay. The Cuvee Levroutee (3000 to 6000 bottles, when made) is the product of overripe grapes, about 30% of which have been attacked by botrytis. It is always riveting. The '95, with 1.8% residual sugar, is a gorgeous blend of flavors: honey, pineapple, verbena, lemon zests and minerals. (These three can be drunk with any food normally associated with a good white Burgundy.) And last comes the magnificent 100% botrytis cuvee with 12.6% residual sugar (1000 to 5000 bottles, made only in good years). Drink this as you would a Sauternes.   
