20030502
 Bush Says War Ending, Looks to '04 --- Declaration Frees President To Focus on Broader Agenda, Including Campaign Plans   By By Jeanne Cummings and Greg Hitt, The Wall Street Journal,  May 2, 2003  While Mr. Bush is riding a wave of public support fueled by war-time sentiment, even Iraq can pose complications for the president. Voters may judge him by what happens inside Iraq in the months ahead, by how effectively he rallies other countries to help pay for Iraq's reconstruction, how smoothly Iraq's transition to self-government goes, and whether the U.S. finds the weapons of mass destruction that Mr. Bush used to justify the invasion. The president, attempting to quell skepticism about the existence of such weapons, said troops "already know of hundreds of sites that will be investigated."  Mr. Bush also tempered the good news with cautions that the overarching war on terrorism goes on, underscoring the notion that Iraq was just one phase of a broader U.S. effort to deter attacks like those on Sept. 11, 2001. Although the U.S. hasn't been able to demonstrate any definitive links between Mr. [Saddam Hussein]'s regime and anti-American terrorists, Mr. Bush contended that in the latest military victory, "we removed an ally of al Qaeda and cut off a course of terrorist funding." Even so, he acknowledged that "al Qaeda is wounded, not destroyed." He said "the scattered cells of the terrorist network still operate in many nations, and we know from daily intelligence that they continue to plot against free people."  "Unfortunately, the timing of this invitation is less than perfect, given that we are at war," the April 11 letter to donors says. But the elder Mr. Bush goes on to suggest that supporting the party -- regardless of the troubled times -- remains important. "In some ways, I believe the President's Dinner this year is more significant than ever before," the elder Mr. Bush wrote. "We are honoring George W. Bush for the focus, clarity of purpose and sense of duty that Americans have come to know and admire."   
