19810905
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y., Sept. 4— Despite protests from the United States and other Western nations, the General Assembly refused to let South Africa speak today and then ejected its delegation from the session called to protest its continued rule of South-West Africa.  On a point of order, South Africa's delegate, J. Adriaan Eksteen, was only allowed to blurt out, ''Mr. President'' and five more words before he was cut off.  A combination of third world nations, the Soviet Union and its allies blocked an attempt to let Mr. Eksteen talk on the procedural point. The vote was 114 to 23 with 6 abstentions. The delegates then voted, 117 to 22 with 6 abstentions, to reject the South African delegation's credentials, and Mr. Eksteen and his colleagues quietly filed out of the chamber.  Defending South Africa's right to take part in the debate, the new deputy American delegate, Kenneth L. Adelman, said that it was ''always important to give all sides a full and fair hearing,'' even if ''such views are different from ours and even distasteful.'' 'Standards of Equity and Fairness'  The Assembly's decisions, he said, ''do not meet our standards of equity and fairness.'' He warned that silencing South Africa would complicate the task of gaining independence for Namibia, as South-West Africa is also known.  Outside the chamber, Mr. Eksteen told reporters: ''We have the right to defend ourselves against unbridled attacks. The General Assembly's unwillingness to allow South Africa to participate is yet another example of the degree to which it has become divorced both from reality and the principles of its charter.''  Inside the hall, the Assembly President, Rudiger von Wechmar of West Germany, broke in on Mr. Eksteen just as be began to speak and recognized Mohammed Bedjaoui of Algeria, who said that giving South Africa the floor threatened ''law and legality.'' South Africa Ousted in 1974  South Africa was first ousted from the Assembly in 1974 and has not been allowed to participate since. Several delegates, including some African representatives, said that South Africa was the political victor today. They said that few would understand how an accused country could be denied an opportunity for defense. The expulsion, they said, also strengthened South Africa's argument that it cannot accept a Western plan for elections in Namibia that are supervised by the United Nations because the world organization is biased.  The incident opened an ''emergency special session'' called by African nations after France, Britain and the United States vetoed a Security Council resolution last April demanding a halt to trade with South Africa.  The chief interest here lies in whether the United States, with its new, more sympathetic approach to South Africa, will come under attack.  Dr. Robert J. Ouko, Kenya's Foreign Minister and chairman of the African foreign ministers group, pointedly did not single out the United States. Instead, he said that the five Western authors of the Namibia plan - Britain, France, West Germany, Canada and the United States - had themselves been ''misled'' by South Africa.  He deplored the veto last April for ''strengthening the hand of the illegal occupying power.'' But he said that the three countries are ''our friends'' and that the point of this session was to urge them ''to exert the necessary pressure on the South African Government.''  Illustrations: photo of South African soldiers in an armored vehicle 
