19810716
WILLIAMSTOWN, Mass. AS the tall, dark and handsome Achilles in the Williamstown Theater Festival's production of ''The Greeks,'' Christopher Reeve had just donned his armor and helmet and gamely marched off stage with spear in hand to die in battle. The first act was nearly over and now, lounging in jeans near a willow tree on the lawn behind the theater, Mr. Reeve had nothing to do for the rest of the play but enjoy the fresh air and beauty of the Berkshire mountains while waiting to take his bow at the final curtain.  ''This is a good place to be when you have a big picture that just came out,'' said the blue-eyed actor, flashing the dazzling half smile so familiar to his ''Superman'' fans. ''I come here to escape. I wander around the town barefoot, and nobody bothers me. Those of us who are 'names' get enough attention elsewhere.''  This summer, Mr. Reeve is one of a multitude of ''names'' working at the Williamstown Theater Festival. Blythe Danner, Maria Tucci and Carrie Nye are here. So are Richard Chamberlain, Celeste Holm, Edward Herrmann, Donald Moffat, Roberta Maxwell and Jane White. And Richard Dreyfuss is expected to arrive shortly. Mr. Moffat, Miss Maxwell and Miss White are newcomers; the others have been here before and belong to what they proudly call the Williamstown ''family.''  ''We try to emphasize the spirit of ensemble here,'' remarked Mr. Reeve, who first came to Williamstown as an apprentice when he was 15 years old. ''Nikos hires names only if they fit the bill. Donnie Osmond will not play Othello here.'' Director Is the Magnet  Nikos is Nikos Psacharopoulos, the Greek-born Yale professor who was a co-founder of the Williamstown Theater Festival in 1955 and has run it ever since. When you ask Mr. Reeve, Miss Danner and the others just what lures them to Williamstown, rather than some other summer theater in an equally quaint town dotted with white clapboard houses, the answer always comes back, ''Nikos,'' and the working environment and creative opportunities he makes available to them.  ''This is an actors' theater,'' said Mr. Reeve, pointing out that Williamstown, unlike many other summer theaters, announces only the first couple of productions of the season in advance. The rest are up for grabs, depending on which actors happen to be available and what they feel like doing.  ''The Greeks,'' a two-part, six-hour epic of the House of Atreus, closes Saturday night; the ambitious production was adapted by John Barton and Kenneth Cavander from Greek classics and directed by Mr. Psacharopoulos. Next Tuesday, Miss Danner, Mr. Chamberlain and Mr. Herrmann open in Shaw's ''Arms and the Man,'' directed by Robebt Allan Ackerman.  The next production, opening Aug. 4, will be Gorky's ''Summerfolk,'' starring Miss Tucci and Mr. Herrmann, and directed by Austin Pendleton. Beyond that, there is talk of ''Joe Egg'' with Mr. Dreyfuss, ''Miss Julie'' with Miss Danner, and Noel Coward's ''Nude With the Violin'' with Miss Nye and her husband, Dick Cavett.  ''This is the only place I can think of where you can ask, and you shall receive,'' Mr. Reeve said. ''Early in 1980, after I completed 'Superman,' I felt I'd like to get back to the stage. I called Nikos. He offered me half a dozen plays. I wanted to do a very fast-paced, physically demanding period piece. After the choppiness of film work, I wanted to play a character that had to be sustained for three acts. Nikos mounted 'The Front Page' for me, with Kate Burton, Celeste Holm and Ed Herrmann.'' Sight Unseen Acceptance  This summer Mr. Reeve returned, flying himself into town in his own six-passenger airplane, to play Achilles. ''Nikos sent me the script, but I told him I'd do it without even reading it,'' Mr. Reeve remarked. ''I said, 'Nikos, tell me what to do, and I'll do it.' This is the first classical part I've played since I was a drama student at Juilliard in 1974. You have to hold the stage in a classical tradition. You can't come on like a plumber. For me, Wiliamstown is like a continuing adult-education program.''  For Miss Tucci, the Williamstown experience is ''total immersion.'' ''You don't get distracted,'' said the actress, whose huge rented house a short walk from the theater is an unofficial canteen for company members seeking a cool drink and lively conversation. ''The work is very intense, and the actors are very close.''  ''You can take chances here, and not worry about your career,'' said Mr. Herrmann, one of Miss Tucci's guests the other day. ''When Chris was going into rehearsal for 'The Front Page' last summer, Austin Pendleton, who was directing it, said to me, 'You should play Walter Burns.' I said, 'But he's 50 years old.' We decided, why not? It turned out to be a romp. I never would have played that role if I hadn't done it here.'' Work Is Financial Sacrifice  Mr. Herrmann mentioned that he and Miss Danner - the actress he calls ''the hostess'' of the theater festival because she has been here every year since 1974 - have turned down lucrative work elsewhere to play at Williamstown: ''I gave up a TV thing in June for a lot of money, and Blythe gave up a movie with Pavarotti for a tremendous amount of money.'' Last summer Miss Danner turned down an offer to star in a film opposite Alan Bates. Williamstown pays Equity actors a flat fee of $330 a week.  ''Unless you really need the money, you have to do what makes you happy,'' said Miss Danner, dropping in at Miss Tucci's with a crumpled script of ''Arms and the Man'' tucked under her arm. ''I never would have done Masha in 'The Three Sisters' if I hadn't done it here. Nikos was very insistent. He yelled at me a lot. That was a role that helped me grow a lot as an actress. Nina in 'The Seagull' is another one. I'm always frightened of doing emotional roles. Nikos demands that you go into the deepest part of yourself and bring it out.  ''You get more courageous here. You're freer, more joyous, not afraid. I think I will be here forever.'' Miss Danner's two children have grown up at Williamstown, and Miss Tucci's and Mr. Reeve's children are here, too. Miss Danner's daughter, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Miss Tucci's daughter, Lizzie Gottlieb, have bit parts as little boys in ''The Greeks.'' ''The children all go around in little packs,'' Miss Danner said. Little Rehearsal Time  Despite their enthusiasm for Williamstown, the actors have one big complaint - the shortage of time in which to rehearse and perform. They have two weeks to rehearse a new production - by comparison, the typical rehearsal period on Broadway is four weeks - and only one or two weeks to perform.  ''It's a crazy place schedule-wise,'' Richard Chamberlain was saying over a candlelit dinner at the popular River House. The actor, still sporting his salt-and-pepper ''Shogun'' mustache, made his debut as a director with ''The Shadow Box'' at Williamstown in 1978. He came back this year on the spur of the moment. When he was in New York in June to be host of the Tony Awards, his friend Robert Allan Ackerman, who was already scheduled to direct Miss Danner and Mr. Herrmann in an unspecified play, invited him to join the group.  ''The time you're not rehearsing is spent madly trying to learn lines,'' Mr. Chamberlain said. ''We got nearly all of 'Arms and the Man' blocked in three days. That would be unheard of in a Broadway production. It's a challenge, that's for sure.''  Still, no one is really complaining. ''I just discovered a lovely little swimming hole near my house,'' Mr. Chamberlain announced gleefully. ''It is so low key here that after rehearsals the crowdconscious New Yorkers look at each other and say, 'Where is everybody?' ''  Illustrations: photo of Blythe Danner, Edward Herrmann and Richard Chamberlain 
