20010920
 Taste: Terrorism Chic --- How do those `daring acts' of the '60s radicals look now?   By By Sam Tanenhaus, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 21, 2001  Blunt language of that kind is distinctly absent from current discussions of the late 1960s and early 1970s. You won't find the word "terrorist" in a story that appeared in the New York Times on Tuesday, Sept. 11, the day of the World Trade Center attack. It was an affectionate profile of Ms. [Kathy Boudin]'s comrade-in-arms and Ms. [Diana Oughton]'s boyfriend, Bill Ayers, author of a boastful memoir of his exploits 30 years ago. "I don't regret setting bombs," Mr. Ayers told the Times interviewer in the living room of his spacious Chicago home. "I feel we didn't do enough." Mr. Ayers, wrote the dazzled reporter, "still has the ebullient manner, the apparently intense interest in other people, that made him a charismatic figure in the radical student movement." As if this weren't enough, the Times returned to Mr. Ayers a few days later, in the Sunday magazine, with another fawning interview.  Of course Mr. Ayers's "intense interest" assumed a different meaning when "other people" became the objects of his violent fantasies. The terrorists of his generation would have approved of the targets selected by last Tuesday's suicide pilots -- the World Trade Center is an emblem of American commerce, the Pentagon a fortress of our military might. In fact, Mr. Ayers got there first, way back in 1972. "Everything was absolutely ideal on the day I bombed the Pentagon," he writes in his memoir. He describes in detail how the bomb was built and then placed in a Pentagon restroom. Reflecting on the incident today, Mr. Ayers evades responsibility. "Even though I didn't bomb the Pentagon -- we bombed it, in the sense that the Weathermen organized it and claimed it." He also helped bomb New York City Police headquarters in 1970 and the Capitol in 1971. Sound like terrorism? Not to the Times, which calls these "daring acts." But weren't last Tuesday's suicide missions "daring acts," too?   
