19820706
LONDON, July 5— Simon Winchester, one of the three British journalists imprisoned for 77 days by Argentina on spying charges, reported this weekend that while in prison he kept records of the movements of military planes and ships ''which we could glimpse through the cell's grimy little window.''  Mr. Winchester, of The Sunday Times, was being held in Ushuaia, at the southern tip of Argentina, with two staff members of another Sunday newspaper, The Observer: Ian Mather, a reporter, and Tony Prime, a photographer. They were freed on bail last Tuesday and said on their arrival in Britain that they would return to stand trial.  The jail, Mr. Winchester said in an article for his paper Sunday, provided a ''curious perspective on the war.'' It was from Ushuaia and ''while we were there,'' for example, that the Belgrano, Argentina's cruiser, left on her final voyage. She was sunk by the nuclear-powered submarine Conquerer.  ''Scores of destroyers, frigates and patrol boats scuttled into port once the vulnerability of the big ships was proven by her loss,'' he said, and ''we saw the Skyraiders and the Daggers,'' Argentine fighter planes, ''leave to attack the task force.'' War News From Argentines  ''It was terribly frustrating knowing all this and not being able to relate it,'' he wrote. The journalists were given additional information by the local police chief, who was also a naval captain and ''would come fresh from the war room to tell us things.''  On one occasion, according to Mr. Winchester, the official said that a British frigate, spotted near Cape Horn, ''had been ordered sunk by an Exocet,'' an air-to-surface missile that was to prove effective for Argentina, but ''last-minute orders from Buenos Aires called the attack plane home'' to Rio Gallegos, a nearby port, ''and the frigate was saved for later.''  Mr. Winchester wrote that he had been accused of using binoculars while waiting for a commercial flight at Rio Grande, also nearby, ''to observe Daggers, Aeromacchis and a solitary Neptune antisubmarine plane'' take off. ''I took notes,'' he acknowledged, and ''ventured to ask a waiting pilot to identify the passing hardware.''  He also said that after he had admitted meeting on three occasions with British military attaches an Argentine judge declared that the conversations ''were as among equals'' and that Mr. Winchester's notes were ''of a type and a caliber not usually available to an ordinary correspondent.'' First Days the Worst  Mr. Mather, writing in The Observer, said the first days after their arrest April 13 had been the worst. But a medical examination that had terrifying implications turned out to be an inspection for possible earlier abuse and a portable electric generator that had been wheeled into a cell was used to weld a broken door.  The three were permitted to share a cell, keep diaries, listen to the BBC World Service - and thus inform their captors of Argentine losses - read letters from Britain and consume books provided by an English resident of Ushuaia. They also argued over whether compliance or defiance was the best policy.  Conditions improved as Argentina's military prospects declined, they wrote. Eventually they were moved to a ''suite'' of cells previously occupied by a prostitute and one night near the end of the war, Mr. Winchester wrote, ''I made so bold as to demand wine with our tripe and, astonishingly, I got it.'' 
