19810211
-------------------------------------------------------------------- B.H. Fussell is a freelance writer who specializes in food. By B.H. FUSSELL  ''IDON'T go by any recipe, I just cook natural,'' said Cleo Johns, the soft-faced, soft-voiced woman who runs Cleo's La Cuisine Catering in Maplewood, N.J. There is a down-home elegance to her food, and that comes naturally, too. For years, she has been feeding potato fritters at bar mitzvahs to boys who will later feast at their weddings on her barbecued ribs, southern-fried chicken, lobster and spaghetti, corn pudding and famous chocolate souffle. Cooking, she says, is like ''turning on a faucet.''  Mrs. Johns's kitchen is a big, airy room that was once a bakery. There are three sisters to help her, and ''head girls,'' like Christine Baumeister, who have been with her for 16 years. Mrs. Johns's husband, Baylor, helped her ''before he passed,'' and her two sons work in other parts of the business, but she would prefer to do the cooking herself. ''Sometimes I forget that everybody can't be Cleo,'' she says. ''Almost anything you make I feel I could have done better and that's bad, that's really bad.''  Mrs. Johns has her standards - no substitutes, no short cuts - and they have made her reputation if they haven't made her wealthy. ''I love to cook so much that if you didn't give me anything, I'd do the party anyway.''  She learned to cook on the family farm in Spring Hope, N.C., where she was born 65 years ago. ''On the farm, we raised every string bean, butter bean, lima bean, every ear of corn, and picked it fresh,'' she says.  Today it's the best butter and the freshest corn, grated fine, that makes her corn pudding what it is. She recalls watching her father roast whole pigs over a pit of coals for his barbecue restaurant. While her nine brothers and sisters worked the cotton fields, Cleo stayed home and cooked. If she had to, she says now, she could have picked 300 pounds of cotton in one day, ''because I was the workingest one.''  But cooking was her passion. ''It was a gift from God,'' she says. Mrs. Johns cooked as a mother's helper for 20 years after she came north to New Jersey at 11, and she cooked with a friend in homes in South Orange before she invested her savings in setting up the first Cleo's in a storefront on Academy Street.  ''I got nine parties at once and was so scared I didn't know what to do,'' she remembers, laughing softly. Nowadays, she has as much business as she wants. Temple Israel, a Reform synagogue in South Orange, made Cleo its exclusive caterer. Alexander's hired her to open each of its new department stores with a buffet for 4,000. Each weekend Cleo's caters eight or nine bar mitzvahs, as well as pool parties and weddings in the peak summer season.  In addition, Temple Israel wants her to set up a training program to teach children who don't know how to wash a dish how to cook and serve. And her son Al wants her to cook more quiche and cheesecake for Cleo's La Cuisine Restaurant that he opened four years ago at Harmon Cove in Secaucus, N.J.  Sometimes Mrs. Johns faces challenges she hadn't expected. She recently cooked a sit-down dinner in Princeton University's Jadwin Gymnasium for 1,450 members of the College of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey.  She lined up 20 stoves in the gym to pour forth a smorgasbord of hot and cold hors d'oeuvres and a four-course meal of fresh strawberries and pineapple, artichoke and hearts of palm salad, a double entree of shell steak and chicken breast, corn pudding and three vegetables, and a dozen desserts, including a Viennese pastry table and Cleo's chocolate souffle with vanilla ice cream. However, the dinner was not an unqualified success: some of the food was served cold and some diners didn't get dessert.  ''That's the only time I ever got sick of catering,'' Mrs. Johns said. Despite an unsuccessful attempt to run a restaurant at Lincoln Center from 1974 to 1977 - (''I was so stupid then, so darn countrified'') - Mrs. Johns says she would love to have a restaurant in Greenwich Village. It would be small enough, she says, ''So you could be with the people.''  Cleo had a dream the other night, reported her soft-spoken business manager from New Delhi, Mohan Narang, better known as Mo. She dreamed that she was cooking a dinner for the President of the United States, not too large, just a small at-home party. ''It seemed just natural,'' Cleo laughed softly.  Cleo, like many cooks, does not use recipes. Nevertheless, we have tried to translate her way of cooking, in quantities that are suitable for four to eight people.  Illustrations: Photo of Cleo Johns 
