20010211
 E-Commerce (A Special Report): Industry by Industry --- Privacy --- Private Matters: It seems that trust equals revenue, even online   By By Andrea Petersen, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 12, 2001  It's not just the threat of bad publicity that is pushing companies to act. New privacy laws and regulations in Europe are forcing companies that do business overseas to pay attention to their privacy practices and ensure they are in compliance. In the U.S., a federal privacy law seems to be on the horizon, spurring Internet-advertising trade groups such as the Network Advertising Initiative to set up their own privacy standards in an effort to stave off restrictive regulation. Many individual companies are also overhauling their privacy practices in anticipation of a federal law.  EarthLink's new chief privacy officer, Mr. [Les Seagraves], says he plans to form an internal privacy council with representatives from all of the major company departments. The council will be charged with overseeing privacy practices and will propose new safeguards. EarthLink is also likely to put together a group of its customers that the company can call on to judge its privacy policies and give feedback on new services and protections. Mr. Seagraves already plans to create Web pages with information on how customers can browse the Web and send e-mail anonymously. The pages will also contain detailed explanations of cookies, those little computer programs that Web sites send to users' hard drives to track their online movements.  DoubleClick -- in an attempt to rebuild its tarnished reputation -- is getting serious about privacy. In March of 2000 the company hired a chief privacy officer and set up a consumer privacy board. The company began submitting itself to regular privacy audits, ran a banner advertising campaign informing consumers of how cookies work and set up a Web site to let people opt out of DoubleClick cookies. The company now also requires all Web sites it works with to post privacy policies.   
