19810727
PHILADELPHIA, July 26— Mayor William J. Green, a man who usually looks as if he had never had a sleepless night, got up at 5 A.M. the other day with some troubling thoughts, a friend says, and began to make some notes.  A little later he called another old friend, Richard A. Doran, Philadelphia's Director of Commerce, and asked him to drop by to kick things around.  At 1:30 P.M. those thoughts came out in an unusual news conference. The import was that the Mayor had been running a managerially splendid government but somehow ''people in the neighborhoods'' were not getting the message that it was all ''in their interest.'' And perhaps that was partly his fault, the Mayor said.  ''Sometimes,'' he said, ''I think I seem terribly aloof.'' What brought this on was the outcome of a special Congressional election last Tuesday. Mr. Green's protege, David B. Glancey, the chairman of the city Democratic committee, was soundly defeated in the heavily Democratic Third District by State Senator Joseph Smith, a dissident Democrat running as both an Independent and the Republican nominee. For Politics, Only a 'C'  What the Democratic Mayor said about himself at his news conference was reasonably close to what other Philadelphians, both friends and opponents, were saying. Much of it seems to have been summed up in an observation by Joseph E. Coleman, the City Council President.  ''For running a good, clean government, eliminating waste and excessive patronage, I'd grade him with 'A' for his first 18 months in office,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''As for practical politics, I'd give him a 'Gentleman's C.' ''  In an interview, the Mayor seemed to be taking the election as a lesson for the future. ''I think there is a perception that I don't care about people,'' he said. ''I care very much.'' He continued: ''We seemed to be saying, 'What we're doing is right and if you don't see it you ought to get your eyes examined.' ''  Others were saying much more, and many were re-examining their views of the man himself. He learned politics at home from his father, also William J. Green, who was the powerful leader of Philadephia's Democratic organization. So strong was the influence of the the father that, when he died at the age of 53, there was little question that the son, then 25 and still in law school at Villanova University, would succeed him in Congress. Never Seemed at Ease  The young man, according to those in political circles, never seemed at ease in backroom politics. Through 12 1/2 years in Congress and two unsuccessful campaigns, one for Mayor in 1971 and another for the Senate in 1976, he seemed to grow in political skills, but never seemed to mobilize his assets.  He is a striking public figure at 43 years of age, lean, handsome and square-jawed, but those who know him say he is a sensitive and private man, given to secrecy. He is a well-educated, articulate and stirring stump speaker, but stiff and formal in person-to-person contacts at public functions. Humorous and gracious in private, he is often combative and irritable with reporters.  Before last week's election, Mr. Green seemed to have retreated behind the doors of his office to devote himself to running the city government. Ward leaders and union chiefs said it was difficult to get access to him, and reporters talked about what some called ''a bunker mentality.''  After the election, State Senator Craig Lewis, a supporter, observed: ''What he needs to recognize is that what he wants to achieve can't be done in an academic embryo.'' 'Analysis Paralysis' Seen  Before the newly elected Mayor took office last year, a reporter, citing in an article his methodical and deliberative nature, recalled the words of a former aide who had said that in Congress Mr. Green had been afflicted with ''analysis paralysis.''  There are few who quarrel with the Mayor's record of accomplishments thus far. When he took office, he said that he found a payroll bloated with patronage jobs and generous contract settlements with municipal workers. It was a city headed toward fiscal collapse, he warned, with an impending deficit of $140 milion.  It was a dirty city, with no street-cleaning program, and the grass in the parks often went uncut. It had a high rate of tax delinquencies, and there were vast inequities in tax assessments. The housing and economic development programs had been snagged between the city and Federal agencies. The city's schools and the area's transit system, both independent of the Mayor's control, were deficit-ridden.  Slowly, the new Mayor marshaled an administrative staff that is generally recognized for quality. And he began to move on the worst of the problems. Jobs Cut in First Months  ''He's a very deliberative and careful person,'' said Mr. Doran. ''He likes to deal with one problem at a time. If that's analysis paralysis, so be it. But if there was ever a time when there was no paralysis in this city's government, it was in those first few months.''  The Mayor quickly cut 1,700 jobs and met municipal workers in contract negotiations with demands for a moratorium on wage increases. With three of the four groups, he was successful. The other, representing the police, went to arbitration and won 5 percent in increases spread over two years.  ''I think we're the only major city in recent years that has actually had a personnel cost decrease,'' the Mayor said. At the end of the Mayor's first full fiscal year, the projected deficit of $140 million had been converted to a surplus of $37 million, and progress was generally acknowledged to be being made on most other problems.  ''But first,'' said Wilson Goode, the city's managing director, who is the city's highest administative official, ''we had to impose management systems where there were none.''  It was almost inevitable, some say, that complaints would be heard nearly halfway into the mayoral term on programs and promises in which there have been delays. The Mayor has been blamed for aggravating the complaints through silence.  One was a problem over cable television, Mr. Coleman recalled. Citizens complained of lack of a system. With no initiative apparent from the Mayor, the Council moved to take over. The Mayor staved off its intervention by disclosing studies that were under way and promising to produce a plan by the end of this month. Other Problems of Silence Seen  ''We had no idea if he was doing anything,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''If he had told us we wouldn't have entered into it.'' But even the Mayor's achievements in reform seemed to have worked against him in last week's election. Many ward leaders and committeemen with patronage wounds turned out to work against the Mayor's choice.  ''I think every enemy he ever made in 18 years in public life turned to work out against him in that election,'' said State Senator James Lloyd.  After the election, analysts began to talk of the outcome as a stimulus for a comeback by former Mayor Frank L. Rizzo, but Mr. Green said he was not worried.  ''That was like sandlot ball compared with Veterans Stadium,'' he said. ''I really think what we have done will be appreciated if we can get our message across.''  Illustrations: Photo of William J. Green 
