19820416
''T HIS ain't a crazy world?'' said Freddy Menna, the fight manager. ''I had a guy once come to me, he was fantastic, he was beautiful, one of the most gorgeous builds in the world - and the world's a pretty big place. He'd pound his chest, 'I'm Tarzan.' And in the gym he was rough. Oh, boy, I've got the next heavyweight champeen on my hands. So I take him down to Scranton for his first fight. The bell rings, he takes one step and goes down. He wasn't even hit. He fainted.''  Freddy shrugged. ''But you never know. I remember years ago Tony Canzoneri started fightin', and people said he'd never make it 'cause he kept his hands so low. But so what? He had good legs. He became a three-time champ. So I always say, if a guy has the desire, no matter what he has, there's hope.''  Menna is short and graying. He is 57 years old, still strong but considerably rounder than when he fought as a welterweight and was, he said, the champion of Queens ''and all the other boroughs.''  He was a sparring partner for his friend, the former middleweight champion Rocky Graziano, and says the two fought 4,000 rounds together.  Since the early 1950's, when he retired as a prizefighter, Menna has been a fight manager in the New York area; he has had some proteges make main events, but so far no champs.  He was sitting on a wooden folding chair in the gym of the South Queens Boys' Club in Richmond Hill. There was the thump of bags being punched, the scrape of boxing shoes on the ring canvas, the grunt of fighters, the smell of liniment. Periodically, a bell clanged.  ''I've gotten close to producing some great fighters, but then something seems to happen,'' he said. ''I had this real clean-living fellow once. My God, what a specimen! The next Marciano. I trained him for six months. I gave him my blood. One day he comes to me and says he's going to become a priest. I begged and pleaded with him. I told him about the birds and the bees. I like religion, I got a big family, and we got Irish and Italian and German and rabbis, but I says he got a great shot to be champ. He says, 'The Lord is closer to me.' ''  Freddy shook his head. He looked around at the fighters working. ''It's a wonderful sport, even with the disappointments,'' he said. ''You see these kids here, and you know they'll become good citizens even if they don't become champions. You train in here, and you're too tired at night to go out robbin'.  ''And I think gettin' hit is sometimes good for you, too. I mean, this is not a normal world. People are bombin' each other, stranglin' each other. I think that you get hit in the head a couple times, it loosens things up - you're not tight. You hear a little click-click up there, and it relaxes a guy.  ''Fighting, it makes you humble, too. You're lyin' on the dressing table before the fight, and you're all alone. No lawyer or doctor or psychiatrist is going to help you in the ring. You gotta do it yourself.  ''It makes you lean more to God. You're in battle, it's like you're in hell. No wonder fighters become ministers - look at Henry Armstrong, George Foreman ....  ''You know, they said the fight game was on its way out. But it's getting bigger than ever. The big money is there, and young kids want it. This is the Sugar Ray Leonard era, where even a welterweight can earn $10 million in a fight. That's more than Jack Dempsey earned in his whole career.  ''And you got these times where kids are out of jobs - money on the street is scarce. Used to be that you'd only see black kids and Spanish kids in the gym. Now you got white kids and everything. But it's still hard to make 'em concentrate. Too much television. Too much luxury - even poor kids have cars.  ''I had this fighter, he's doin' good and it's between rounds. I'm explainin' to him something, and he's staring over my shoulder. I grabs him by the ears. I says, 'Here's the fight, what're you doin' over there?'  ''We even get some college kids up here. And it's nice, because they can talk without the words bangin' into each other. Like my son, Mickey. He graduated college - he's goin' for a master's degree. Good student, gets triple A's. He wants to be a teacher. Nothin' wrong with that, but he could've been a good fighter - what a puncher. The trouble is I just got him too much education.  ''The best fighters need motivation. That's the whole key. One day a chauffeur-driven limousine drives up to my gym, and a fat guy gets out. He's about 68 years old. He's rich. He says he wants to train to box. I says, 'You gotta be kidding.' He says no. He just wants to learn, he doesn't want to be a champ or nothin'.  ''Well, I decide to do it. We work out in the gym, we run in the park. He loses weight, and, you know, he's gettin' good. I start to dream. A 68-year-old Marciano. One day he comes to me. And says he's quittin'. I says how come. He says: 'I did what I wanted to do. I took my son-in-law into the backyard, we put the gloves on, and I flattened him.' ''  Another time, a man comes to Menna and asks if he can help his son. ''The son walks all awkward -he's got this nerve disease,'' recalled Menna. ''I said, 'Gee, I can't do nothin' for him.' The father says, 'Try, wouldya?' I says O.K. We work out for months, the kid really tries, and soon he starts to punch the bag so that it don't punch him back.  ''He starts to get coordinated. The father is so proud and happy. He says to me, 'Look what you did for this kid.' The man almost cried on me. The kid didn't become no boxer, of course, but he was able to get a driver's license. Yeah, he was one who worked out good.'' 
