19811212
* Brunswick Corp. and G.D. Searle & Co. announced a joint agreement for Brunswick to purchase Searle's Dover Urological Products division in a cash transaction. Terms were not disclosed.  * Florida National Banks of Florida Inc. said that the Federal Reserve Board had approved its proposed acquisition of Alliance Corp.  * Grumman Aerospace Corp. was awarded a $71.3 million Air Force contract for an experimental aircraft in a forward-swept-wing flight program.  * Huntington Bankshares has acquired a stake in Union Commerce Corporation of 189,623 shares, or 4.9 percent. In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Huntington said it acquired its holdings in a Dec. 2 private transaction from Joseph C. Coakley and family and businesses controlled by them for an aggregate price of $3,223,591. Huntington said the shares were acquired in connection with a proposed business combination of Huntington and Union Commerce.  * Inexco Oil Co. said it had been informed by Amerada Hess Corp. that, in view of other commitments, Amerada was backing out of the exploration phase of a joint exploration program.  * Kanngaz Producers Ltd. said it had signed a gas sale contract involving 125 million cubic feet of gas a day with the Tennessee Gas Pipeline Co. of Houston, a unit of Tenneco Inc.  * LTV Corp. said its Vought Corp. Aerospace unit had received $40.1 million in additional fiscal year 1981 funding for production of Air National Guard A-7K aircraft, bringing the total contract to $58.9 million from production of six aircraft.  * S.C.I. Systems said it had been awarded a contract of about $24 million from an equipment manufacturer for initial production of an electronic product.  * A.E. Staley Mfg. has acquired a 100-acre site in the Rivergate Industrial Port at Memphis, with the intent of constructing a soybean processing mill at some future date. Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.  * Tosco Corp. won approval from the Environmental Protection Agency for its pollution control plans for a commercial oil shale project near Vernal, Utah. Tosco hopes to produce 45,000 barrels a day from the project. 
