19810720
DANVERS, Mass. THE most acclaimed hockey player the United States has produced wears a Gregory's Deli jersey as he skates against Moynihan Lumber. Outside the Town Line Twin Rinks on Route 114, it is a steamy July evening. But inside it is cold, and the men from the town wear the warmup jackets of their youth as they join Sgt. Bob Carpenter of the Peabody police force watching his son, Bob Jr.  It is a scene that has gone on here for more than 10 years. It will not go on much longer. Young Carpenter, who turned 18 years old last week, has graduated from high school and has signed a letter of intent to attend Providence College, which is perhaps one top player from capturing the national collegiate hockey championship. But Carpenter also was the third pick last month of the entire National Hockey League draft, plucked under surprising circumstances by the Washington Capitals; no other American player was ever chosen higher on the first round - and no other high school skater from the United States was ever picked in that round.  It is decision time for Bobby Carpenter, of nearby Peabody. Does he take the money - likely to be worth half a million dollars for a three-year package - and turn pro far from home? Or does he take the 93 average he compiled in his senior year into col lege and study computer science? ''That's why I'm pushing for college,'' his father says. '' If it's a mistake for him to be a hockey player, then it's not a big one. At least he will have gone to college.''  ''I've got to be one of the luckiest people my age,'' says the curly-haired son, who plays center. ''Ever since I started skating, this is what I wanted. But an American boy? Out of high school? I never thought I'd have this chance.''  He will make up his mind shortly, soon after he competes at the National Sports Festival in Syracuse, which begins a one-week run on Thursday. At Syracuse, he will be competing for the New England team in a round-robin tourney against regional United States clubs called Great Lakes, Midwest and Central.  For now, though, he is among the friends who look after him, who have seen him lure scouts and agents and college coaches to this boutique arena half an hour from Boston, and to whom he is family. They watch him play with older boys, as usual, for Gregory's Deli in a summer league, in which his teammates are happy if Gregory's sends over free sandwiches after the game.  The friends include Bobby Orr, who was once an 18-year-old sensation himself as Canada's most famous young player. Orr has been acting as an unsalaried adviser, giving the family advice not only on hockey matters but on how to deal with the news media.  There is also Carpenter's coach, a paint manufacturer named Joe Yannetti, who also scouts for the Winnipeg Jets and coaches St. John's Prep, the Xavierian Brothers school in Danvers whose most noted student is Bob Carpenter Jr.  The arena manager, Michael Hunt, is always there, too, and he remembers coaching against 10-year-old Bobby, ''and how we had to put two guys on him to stop him.''  But the most intense person is wearing a policeman's uniform. Big Bob Carpenter, a police sergeant out of Central Casting - clear-eyed, straight-talking, mad about his boy. He thanks a visitor profusely for saying how pleasant the visitor found his son.  ''Thanks. I'd rather hear that than how good a hockey player he is,'' says Big Bob. But it is also obvious that Sergeant Carpenter is carrying a burden. Ultimately, despite the presence of Orr, and coaches, and a hundred friends, and a level-headed son, he is the one most likely to make the decision on his son's future.  How quickly that time has come. ''I remember when he used to come home at 11, 11:30 from kindergarten. How old could he have been? Five? He would go out and skate. And then he would fall asleep on the couch.''  Until just a few months ago, the Carpenter family had decided that Bobby would go to Providence and that would be that. But a close relationship had developed between the Carpenters and officials of the Hartford Whalers, the lowly N.H.L. team that would be having a high draft pick. And Hartford wasn't far from the Carpenter home.  Whaler scouts, of course, had seen the boy. In his three years he totaled 168 points in 64 games, which included 70 goals. At 6 feet 1 inch tall and 185 pounds, he was big enough for the pros. Beyond the scoring and the size, though, he had a willingness to dig for the puck, to push the enemy off it. And he knew where to go when he didn't have the puck. He had hockey sense.  ''He's a tall Bryan Trottier,'' says his high school coach. ''He won't score 60 goals, but his wings will.'' But the high school team played only 64 regular-season games over that span, and 64 games is just about what Canadian junior hockey players perform in during a single season.  That is why some scouts - especially for some Canadian teams -were skeptical. They said that he didn't have enough game action. And anyway, what could you tell about a kid playing against American high school students?  ''The competition isn't high enough,'' one Philadelphia Flyers scout said. ''You can't tell how good he'd be against better players.'' 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
