19810811
The F.A.A. suspended all flights to Europe from six major airports when Canadian controllers refused to handle flights into and out of the United States. A few hours later, after a new route bypassing Canadian air space had been worked out, the suspension was lifted. (Page A1.) In the interim, however, trans-Atlantic air travel was thrown into confusion, with some flights canceled, others delayed, and still others rerouted or turned back en route. (A1.)  Overall constraints have been imposed on the airlines despite the 1978 deregulation law, industry experts said, as a result of the controllers' strike. They expect the airlines to continue operating fewer flights, dropping unprofitable routes and attracting more passengers to the remaining ones, while making less use of discount fares. (D1.)  Consumers bought $1.93 billion more on credit than they paid off in June, even though they were paying off old installment debt at a record level, the Federal Reserve Board reported. Analysts saw the increase as an encouraging sign for the economy. (D13.) Companies  The Administration is ready to drop the A.T.& T. antitrust suit as soon as a telecommunications deregulation bill is ''pretty well along'' in Congress, Assistant Attorney General William F. Baxter said. In a comment on Mobil's bid to take over Conoco, he said that he would not have ruled out the merger simply on the issue of size. He added that the real issue would have been potential competition. (D1.)  Seagram emerged as the biggest single stockholder in the Du Pont-Conoco company, with a larger block of shares than the duPont family. Analysts questioned, however, how Seagram, the world's biggest liquor distiller, could justify its huge investment. (D1.)  John Muir & Company will withdraw from the retail brokerage business. The controversial Wall Street firm, propelled by Raymond L. Dirks from obscurity to prominence, is being investigated by the S.E.C. and faces several private lawsuits. (D1.)  The Power Corporation, a big Canadian conglomerate, plans to sell its transportation business, the C.S.L. Group, and buy into Canadian Pacific, the nation's largest enterprise. (D6.)  Amax will postpone for at least two years its planned development of a controversial Colorado molybdenum mine. (D4.)  Pan Am, faced with growing losses, has asked its 33,100 airline workers to take a 10 percent pay cut and agree to a wage freeze until the end of next year. (D4.) People  The apparent suicide of Alvin L. Feldman of Continental Air Lines came near the end of a bitter struggle that the airline seems likely to lose to bar its sale to Texas International Airlines. Mr. Feldman had favored selling the airline to its employees. George A. Warde, president of the line, is expected to succeed Mr. Feldman as chief executive. (D1.) Mr. Feldman said in letters he left that he was depressed over the death last year of his wife and he was described as unhappy about the prospect of losing his company. (B6.)  Ralph E. Bailey, at the head of Conoco during the dramatic bidding war in which Du Pont took over his company, described the experience as ''brain-burning.'' (D1.)  James O. Welch Jr. will run the domestic food operations of Nabisco Brands, the new company formed by the merger of Nabisco and Standard Brands. Martin F.C. Emmett will be in charge of international, beverage and other functions. (D2.) Markets  Stock prices were mixed in further slow trading. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 1.14 points to 943.68. (D8.) Interest rates for new three- and six-month Treasury bills fell to 15.24 percent and 15.12 percent, respectively, from last week's near record averages. (D12.) The dollar reached new highs against several world currencies. Gold rose 80 cents, to $397.30, on the Comex. (D14.) Grain and soybean futures prices declined. (D14.) Today's Columns  The $30 billion tax leasing industry is undergoing fundamental changes as a result of the Administration's new tax plan. The president of BankAmerilease Group, the leasing subsidiary of the Bank of America, discusses the outlook. Talking Business. (D2.)  Competing bids for the Jos. Schlitz Brewing Company are closer than they might at first appear. Many analysts favor a Heileman-Schlitz consolidation. Market Place. (D8.) 
