19810121
BOSTON, Jan. 20— Nearly six years after Massachusetts enacted the nation's first gun control law with a mandatory minimum jail sentence, disagreement remains over whether it has had a major effect on violent crime.  The most positive assessment of the law, which requires at least a one-year prison term for people convicted of carrying an unlicensed pistol and which bans plea bargaining, is that it may have significantly reduced the number of murders and assaults with guns committed in Boston.  But the number of assaults with other weapons has increased, according to a study conducted by the Center for Applied Social Research at Northeastern University here, and the reductions in other crimes committed with guns has been either slight or nonexistent.  Police chiefs and other law-enforcement officials across the state generally consider the law a success, based on the Northeastern study, which was conducted from 1974 to 1976 with grants from the Department of Justice.  Charges of Ineffectiveness  Experts on gun control legislation say that the law has been ineffective, that the changes reflected in the crime statistics may have resulted from other factors and that any gun control law is doomed as long as illegal gun possession is not considered a serious offense by policemen, prosecutors, judges and members of juries.  The Bartley-Fox Law, as the legislation is formally known, was passed in 1974 after a period of sharply rising crime rates in Boston and other major cities. It took effect in April 1975.  A similar gun control law took effect last August in New York State. Under it anyone found carrying a loaded, unlicensed handgun can be charged with an ''armed'' felony, with a minumum penalty of one year in jail.  The Massachusetts law also differs from the new New York City law, which also calls for mandatory one-year prison sentences but only for people convicted of a serious crime within the preceding five years. An attempt by Governor Byrne of New Jersey to obtain a more sweeping law banning pistols altogether has been met coolly by legislative leaders there.  John J. Fox, a retired Probate Court judge who is one of the authors of the Massachusetts law, is one of its strongest advocates. ''The members of the Boston Police Department, the state police, the chiefs of local police departments, they all say they are seeing fewer guns, even if it doesn't show up in the statistics,'' he said. Boston Crimes Down After Law  The Northeastern University study, conducted by Glenn L. Pierce and William J. Bowers, found that in the first two years under the Massachusetts law, homicides committed with guns decreased 55 percent in Boston while murders with guns in similar-size cities declined 23 percent. Assaults with guns dropped 19.3 percent in Boston while in the rest of the nation the decrease was 4.2 percent.  Assaults with knives, blunt instruments and a variety of other objects rose 29.2 percent here in the period, however, as against a 7.3 percent increase nationally.  The research center at Northeastern is conducting a second study of the law's effect, to cover 1976 to 1980, according to Mr. Bowers. ''We think, but we cannot say conclusively yet, that the impact we initially observed is holding up, at least for assault,'' he said. Criticism by Law Professor  But David Rossman, a law school professor at Boston University who participated in the initial study, said he found that few offenders were incarcerated for gun law violations and that it was impossible to evaluate the law without statistics on charges and convictions.  ''Record keeping in this part of the world is not too good,'' Mr. Rossman said. ''Massachusetts still keeps records in shoe boxes.'' The state's Department of Corrections acknowledged that it had no way of knowing how many people had been convicted or imprisoned for gun law violations.  For those convicted of armed robbery or murder, the one-year mandatory sentence means little or nothing, Mr. Rossman asserted. ''It's the guy with the gun under the seat of his car who is stopped at a red light, or the little old lady with a derringer in her pocketbook who is affected by the law, and the system is reluctant to prosecute and convict those people,'' he said. Not a Total Failure  He declined to call the law a failure, however. ''For those legislators who voted for it as a way to head off a ban on gun ownership, it was a success,'' he said.  Michael Farrington, the counsel to the state's Secretary of Public Safety, argued that the Northeastern studies proved the law had had a significant effect. But he acknowledged that it had led to a wide discretion among arresting officers and screening prosecutors.  Franklin Zimring, director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice at the University of Chicago, and an expert on gun control legislation, called the Massachusetts law ''awfully tough'' but doubted its effectiveness.  The problem in the Northeastern studies of Bartley-Fox, he said, is that in ''1975 and 1976 everything worked.'' He said that there were similar major declines in firearm crimes and other crimes ''in most of the major Northeastern Seaboard cities, even those without gun control laws.''  Mr. Zimring also doubted that any study could determine whether a particular law was a deterrent to violent crime. ''This whole notion of cause and effect is suspect.'' he said. ''Criminologists are very much like forecasting economists and gypsy fortunetellers. We can't explain gun-related behavior, so how can we say what has affected it, either up or down?'' 
