20050303
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Families: Driving Under the Influence -- of Dad; At Cub Scouts' Pinewood Derby, Fathers Pay for Extra Edge; A $250 Track for a $4 Toy Car   By Welsh, Jonathan, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 4, 2005  For many kids -- and their parents -- winning now means more than ever. To mark Cub Scouting's 75th anniversary, the organization is holding its first nationwide pinewood race this year. That means the 1.5 million kids now competing in 300 regional Cub Scout councils will have a shot at May's national championship in Dallas. "Pinewood Derby can be a very emotional event," says Jerry Dehoney, associate director of the Boy Scouts of America's Cub Scout division. "I wouldn't say the parents are like Little League parents -- but they can get a little too involved."  For scout leaders who want to keep the playing field even, the derby's high-performance subculture is creating new challenges. Carl Menk, a scout leader in Montclair, N.J., says he often chides dads over the public-address system when kids enter virtually flawless cars. Because the Cub Scout national organization sets only a few basic rules, Mr. Menk explains, it's up to local Cub Scout dens and packs to interpret them. (Many forbid the use of axles and wheels not included in the official kit.) "It's obvious the fathers are building these cars," Mr. Menk says. "Sometimes I take a dad aside and say, in a fun way, that I'll disqualify his car if it happens to win."  Derby-obsessed dads are even the subject of a new movie. "Down and Derby" -- it features Pat Morita of "The Karate Kid," and is set for April 15 release -- is the story of dads who live vicariously through their sons' races. The comedy includes a dad who tries to pilfer a car design from another dad, and wrestles his son for control of a car. Says one of the movie's Cub Scout characters: "I can't wait until I'm a dad so I can build my own car and race it." (Director Eric Hendershot says the movie draws from his own experience as a dad of five Cub Scouts.)   
