19870305
 Gettys Take Aim at Family Trustee in Renewal of Feud --- Clan Members Battle Again Following The Pennzoil-Texaco Judgment   By By Frederick Rose and Thomas Petzinger Jr., The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 6, 1987  Recently, at the behest of Gordon Getty's relatives, a California state court judge quietly agreed to strip Mr. Getty's power to represent the trust in the welter of litigation spilling from the Pennzoil case. Citing "irreconcilable conflicts of interest" on the part of Mr. Getty, Judge Norman Epstein, of Los Angeles, appointed a special trustee to guard the family's fortune following the Texaco-Pennzoil case. Mr. Getty has appealed.  First: Did he renege on a merger contract with Pennzoil in order to sell the family's 40% interest in Getty Oil to Texaco? Mr. Getty faces this allegation on several fronts. In derivative lawsuits filed in New York, Texas and Delaware, Texaco shareholders essentially claim he aided and abetted Texaco's alleged interference with Pennzoil's planned merger with Getty Oil. In addition, Pennzoil refuses to withdraw a three-year-old breach-of-contract suit in Delaware against Mr. Getty and others -- preserving the suit as a second bite at the apple should Texaco succeed in reversing the $10.2 billion judgment. Also, Mr. Getty was a director of Getty Oil and the J. Paul Getty Museum, both of which are being sued in Delaware by Texaco holders and by Pennzoil.  A power struggle broke out between Mr. Getty and the non-family managers of Getty Oil; they solicited a family lawsuit against Mr. Getty, seeking to neutralize his unilateral control over the trust's 40% ownership of Getty Oil. The lawsuit was filed in the name of 15-year-old Tara Gabriel Galaxy Gramaphone Getty at the behest of Tara's father, J. Paul Getty Jr. The suit sought the appointment of Bank of America as Gordon Getty's co-trustee. But later, a suit by three of Gordon Getty's nieces -- sisters Anne Getty Earhart, Claire E. Getty and Caroline M. Getty -- sought Mr. Getty's ouster as trustee altogether.   
