19820208
WASHINGTON, Feb. 7— Q. There is great fascination with El Salvador and th e Caribbean right now. Could you share some idea of what is going to happen in the next few weeks?  A. I think basically our approach has been a clear one from the outset. First, we have to deal with the socio-economic conditions that create the breeding ground for external intervention and subversion. That is our first approach - that's the Caribbean Basin initiative, plus the economic programs, the works we do bilaterally with each of the nations within the region in the area of human rights, internal reform, land reform, sound economic planning. Secondly, we attempt to assist the nations. We inherited this situation when the Administration came in - the insurgency in Salvador was running rampant, there was a major offensive in January of last year which was defeated by the Government, but which did not eliminate the threat.  We had a period where, because of our emphasis on the subject early last year, we had some decline in the shipment of armaments into Salvador. In the subsequent months, those arms began to pick up again, and they are now at a level which approximates the high point when we came into office.  Q. Is this coming through Nicaragua primarily? A. This is coming from a multiplicity of entry routes. It comes over water; it comes over land; and it comes by air; it comes by road transport. A Coordinating Center?  Q. Is there a coordinating center for that? Do you have evidence to suggest that the Cubans or Nicaraguans are involved? A. I would refer you back to that ignominious white paper which had a few minor details that might have been better refined, but the overall weight of that report was a clear reflection of the central planning, the Cuban role, the East European and the Soviet roles, to include the shipment of arms from as far away as Vietnam.  Q. Of course, that was in 1980, primarily. Where is the new stuff coming from? A. We see the same pattern. Q. From Vietnam as well? A. I can't say we have any recent information that there have been new Vietnamese-source shipments. But I think you have to look very carefully at Cuba today. Cuba has received this past year, 66,000 tons on some 30 Soviet transports. What they have gotten in Cuba with those gross tonnages is first of all three times the level of 1980. It exceeds in a large measure the quanitity and quality of anything that was shipped to Cuba since 1962. Arms Imports Listed  The significant items include Mig-23 Floggers, Mig-21 aircraft, An-26 light transports for the Cuban Air Force. For the Navy, they had a Koni-class frigate; Turya-class hydrofoil torpedo boats; Yevgenyaclass in-shore minesweepers; a Sonya-class minesweeper; several Osa-II class guided missile attack boats. Cuba has also received mobile SA-6 launchers and radars associated with that air defense missile; additional SA-2 transporters; SA-2 missile cannisters; new earlywarning and height-finding radar stations.  They have also received electronic warfare vans; T-62 tanks; BMP armored infantry fighting vehicles; BRDN armored reconnaissance vehicles; self-propelled guns; towed field guns; anti-tank guns; antiaircraft guns, as well as large quantities of small arms and ammunition, all of which contribute to a force projection capability.  That quantity of armaments shipped this year suggests both an enhancement of Cuban force-projection capabilities, but it also suggests a large residue of arms for introduction in such insurgency-prone areas as Colombia, Salvador, the rearmament of Nicaragua, and Guatemala, perhaps Honduras, although we have no evidence of that.  Q. What do you think they are doing with those minesweepers? Are they there because they are anticipating the United States might be planning a blockade. Is this just prudent defense activity? 'Neither Black Nor White'  A. While increased levels of concern have been registered by this Administration, the buildup we have witnessed this year had to have been the product of planning and decisions made before. It does not mean to suggest that more recent deliveries might not be a response to increased concerns, so what I'm telling you is, it is neither black nor white, but the fundamental buildup had to have been decided before this Administration came into office.  Q. There's a lot of talk going on about how the United States is getting itself into a ''no-win, Vietnam situation.'' You've been through the whole Vietnam experience. Is there really a legitimate parallel?  A. I think the Central American case is very, very different. This is a pr ofound challenge to the security of ou r hemisphere, to the whole character of the southern hemisphere, its political orientationand its compatibility with traditional hemispheric values. We are talking about the creation, first in Nicaragua, of a total itarian, militarized state which is subservient to Cuban and Soviet influence;and in that sense, the ambiguities are distinctly differen t than theywere in Vietnam.  We are talking about the growing vulnerability of other states in the Central Amrican complex which could be rapidly exploited by externally mounted subversion. It could threaten even our closest neighbors. We're talking about the strategic vulnerability of the Canal, our fundamental dependence on its being retained in friendly hands. We are, in effect, at the very core of United States hemispheric interests. The history of the region, of the disputes in the region, in no way parallel the anguish and the ambiguities associated with Southeast Asia, starting with the French, the North-South demarcatiuon question and the internal debates associated with who were the true proponents of social justice. 'A Repressive Regime'  Q. You get a little of that now with people saying that we're supporting a repressive regime in El Salvador. A. We've never suggested that we are comfortable with the current situation in Salvador. A major aspect of our policy has been to work in meaningful ways to support the reforms that are under way, and above all, to have whatever Government was to represent the outcome there to be a reflection of the will of the people, the selfdetermination of the people of Salvador. That is why we have been extremely reluctant to join calls for negotiated settlements in which political forces of the left that have been unable to accumulate the popular support to sustain it, would, by prearranged negotiations, acquire political pwoer. That is why we have supported the free electoral process scheduled for this March. The discrediting of that process has become a focal point of insurgent activity.  Q. You've always refused to rule anything out, but others have ruled out any military action on the excuse that the public won't support it. Do you think the public will support it?  A. I think the President has made his own views rather clear on this. There are no current plans for the use of American forces. On the other hand and as a matter of principle, the sterility of drawing lines around America's potential options constitutes the promulgation of roadways for those who are seeking to move against America's vital interests. It is the most self-defeating kind of contemporary public relations manipulation that I can conceive. Sovereign states never indulge in it if they are prudent about their public statements.  It is clear that Vietnam left deep, deep scars. To the degree, either rightly or wrongly, opponents to doing anything in Central America can structure parallels between the two situations, obviously that ignores basic differences between the two situations.  I don't think any American wants or would be enthusiastic about another American military involvement. On the other hand, I do think Americans view the threat from Cuba historically as one which they do not take lightly. I think polls we have seen would suggest that over a number of years, even through and in the wake of the Vietnam experience.  Illustrations: photo of Alexander Haig 
