19820507
At 10 o'clock yesterday morning, the New York Futures Exchange began trading in stock index futures. Amid shouts and frantic armwaving in a pit lined with stylish electronic equipment, James McManus of MKI Securities bought two June contracts in the New York Stock Exchange composite index from Bradley Jordan of Merrill Lynch at 68.00 apiece.  With this trade, the New York Futures Exchange opened new ways for speculators and investors alike to play the market, and joined the Kansas City Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in the hotly competitive business of trading stock index futures.  ''It's the entire Big Board market of 1,525 common stocks in one decision -to buy or to sell,'' declared John M. Blin, senior vice president of the N.Y.F.E, of the new contract.  But for the struggling N.Y.F.E,, it may mean even more than that. The start of trading in stock index futures marks a critical period for the exchange, a subsidiary of the Big Board that opened in August 1980. The unit has tried Treasury bonds, foreign currencies and other futures contracts without success. The Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange simply stole its thunder by providing capital and trading markets in far greater depth.  This time around, however, the New York Futures Exchange is considered to have a better chance to show its muscle, thanks partly to support by well-heeled Big Board specialist firms that are expected to provide personnel and capital. Status, as well as market activity, is at stake. ''After all,'' one trader said, ''the composite index is the Big Board's own baby.''  The roller-coaster history of the N.Y.F.E. has seen seat prices, originally sold for $10,000 to Big Board members and $20,000 to nonmembers, fall below $5,000. Earlier this week, in anticipation of the new contract's debut, a seat sold for $17,000.  The dollar value of a single futures contract is determined by multiplying the number of the New York Stock Exchange's composite index of 1,525 stocks - in the case of yesterday's first trade, 68.00 - by $500. Thus, each contract in the opening trade was valued at $34,000.  Each futures contract is an obligation to buy or sell based on the composite index's value at a future date. Thus, settlement must be made in cash on the nearest-month contract before it expires June 29.  A person speculating on future price movement in the market needed to put down only $3,500, or slightly more than 10 percent of the contract's value, as a ''good-faith deposit.'' The one-time commission for each contract is estimated to range from $50 to $70 at brokerage firms.  ''If you buy the June contract at a specified price, what you are saying is that some time before it expires, the value of the composite index will be higher than the price you paid,'' said William E. Byers, director of commodity research at Bear, Stearns & Company. ''By selling the June contract, you are expressing the opinion that the value will be lower during the same time frame.'' More Money May Be Asked  If the Big Board index drops to 67, the speculator who bought the contract at 68 will have lost $500 of his original stake. He must deposit this sum with his broker the next day in order to maintain his commitment. If no deposit is made, the customer is sold out and gets $3,000 back. Some brokers may require a larger good-faith deposit, in order to provide a cushion against potential loss.  This poses another potential risk. ''In contrast to options, where the maximum possible loss is the premium paid,'' Mr. Byers noted, ''the risk of loss in futures contracts is not limited to the initial deposit. This is because futures confer an obligation to perform, while options grant only a right.''  If the composite index goes to 69, the speculator who bought at 68 has made $500. One feature of stock index futures is that the customer can withdraw this $500 and still maintain his original position.  A more conservative approach involves hedging. Futures contracts, for example, can be sold to offset the effect of a general market decline on an investor's existing portfolio.  Additionally, if the holder of a contract also owns some stock, the broker may decide that the customer qualifies for a ''hedge margin,'' calling for an initial good-faith deposit of only $1,500, instead of the $3,500 put up by the outright speculator. Index Was at 68.31  Yesterday, the Big Board index closed at 68.31, while the June futures contract finished at 68.40. This meant that the buyer of one contract at 68 had made $200, while the seller had lost $200 (0.40 times $500). June was the favorite expiration month, with 5,547 contracts traded. Five other contract months, spaced at intervals of three months, also saw some activity. A total of 6,161 contracts traded yesterday.  In March, the Kansas City Board of Trade started commodity contracts geared to the Value Line Index of 1,685 stocks, which includes issues on the American Stock Exchange and in the over-thecounter market. Last month, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange instituted trading in futures contracts linked to Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which also contains some Amex and unlisted issues.  Illustrations: chart photo of New York Futures Exchange 
