19810926
To the Editor:  The Aug. 24 letter by John Dowlin (''Rackety Old Subways Can Be Quieted Down'') shows a complete lack of understanding of the use of pneumatic tires on subway cars. While Paris may be adding to its fleet of cars already operating with pneumatic tires, the latest information I have shows that most of the service in Paris uses steelwheels.  As the New York City Transit Authority's division engineer in charge of new car design and maintenance from 1954 to 1969, I made two visits to Paris, in 1961 and in 1966, and observed the pneumatictired cars and rode them on each visit. They were running on specially prepared tracks and used special shops.  Rubber tires cannot just be used to replace steel wheels on existing trucks. The trucks using pneumatic tires are of special design. So adopting rubber tires would require all-new trucks and changes to bodies to fit on such trucks. The use of the word retrofit (very popular these days) is an oversimplification in this instance.  On each truck with pneumatic tires, there are eight wheels with tires, four load-bearing wheels running on a special roadbed just outside the usual steel rails and four small wheels, one on each corner, that run against side rails to provide stability. In addition, four normal steel wheels are mounted on the axles just inside the load-bearing pneumatic wheels.  While the load-bearing pneumatic tires are properly inflated, the steel wheels are carried just above the rail surface. If a pneumatic tire becomes deflated, the steel wheel runs on the steel rail to carry the load.  In New York, over 15,000 new truck frames, motors and other parts would have to be purchased. Practically none of the existing parts could be adapted. The center castings of the car bolsters would have to be modified, and it might even be necessary to get new, smaller bodies because of the load limits of the pneumatic tires.  In addition, over 1,000 miles of running track would have to be modified to accept the new trucks. I have no data to compute costs, but the total would be huge.  Use of the pneumatic-tired system in Montreal and Mexico City is a different matter. There were no existing cars or tracks, so the system could be adopted. Any city building a new subway or elevated transit could adopt pneumatic tires. However, the new systems in the United States - Washington, San Francisco, Atlanta and Baltimore - are using or plan to use steel wheels and steel rails, and to change now would be senseless. R. G. WELCH, Sarasota, Fla., Sept. 15, 1981 
