19971102
 Manager's Journal: Stocks Overvalued? Not in the New Economy   By By Lowell L. Bryan, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 3, 1997  Are stocks fundamentally overvalued? Is last week's turmoil the beginning of a sustained bear market, as stocks return to "normal" valuations? Almost certainly not. The world's equity markets have been driven to today's levels for good reasons: The cost of equity capital has declined, and the value of intangible capital assets has increased dramatically.  There's no question that the world's stocks are priced differently than they were at the start of the 1990s. Market-to-book ratios of U.S. companies are now about 2-to-1, roughly double the average between 1945 and 1990. Price/earnings ratios in the U.S. are at 25, vs. a historic average of about 17. My colleagues at McKinsey and I analyzed the performance of the 100 largest companies world-wide and divided them into groups based on their earnings growth and returns on book equity since 1991. We then took the 20 of these companies with the least change in absolute performance. These 20 companies had an average increase in earnings of 3.8% compounded (little more than inflation) while return on book equity was flat (9.9% in 1991 and 1996). Yet their market capitalization grew by 13.5% compounded.  Since the performance of these companies was unchanged, what must have changed was the price at which the market valued that performance. Many attribute this change to "irrational exuberance." But our research indicates that the underlying cause is that the cost of equity capital is falling. Research by McKinsey two years ago estimated that there will be a $12 trillion increase in household financial assets by 2002 due to the aging of the developed world's population. The research also found that the demographic forces driving this extraordinary demand for financial assets will continue to increase through at least 2010. Many of these household savers, especially in the U.S., have begun to develop a clear preference for equities over bank deposits or bonds.   
