20010111
 Trial by Fire: Hit by Sudden Slump, Bush Administration Faces Early Challenge --- In Interview, President-Elect Is `Relatively Pessimistic' On State of Economy --- Pushing Ahead With Tax Cut   By By Jeanne Cummings and Jacob M. Schlesinger, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 12, 2001  Earlier in the week, Mr. [George W. Bush] presided over the first lengthy meeting of his new economic team. They spent more than an hour Wednesday contemplating how to rework the tax cut to provide more juice up front. Bush people are also discussing plans for a quick boost in spending on presidential priorities such as education, defense and assistance to low-income seniors buying prescription drugs. Mr. Bush said he hasn't yet decided whether to propose such an early spending bill, saying he has to be careful how and when he expends his "political capital."  Mr. Bush first met Mr. [Paul O'Neill] in 1996. A later, and decisive, meeting was a half-hour session in the Madison Hotel on Dec. 18. Mr. Bush said yesterday that he was struck in that session by the Alcoa chairman's eclectic interests as the two men talked about tax cuts, Mr. O'Neill's efforts to improve worker safety at his company, and his work reforming health care in downtown Pittsburgh. "I really relish the idea of listening to his thoughts," Mr. Bush added. He also thought, he said, that the choice of someone who ran a multinational corporation would help "calm" fears that the new administration might drift toward isolationism. Mr. Bush liked Mr. O'Neill well enough to anoint him Treasury secretary the next day.  While Mr. [Mitchell Daniels]'s chief responsibility will be "putting the numbers together," as Mr. Bush put it, the president-elect said that the job will be broader because "I believe the budget drives policy." Along those lines, what Mr. Daniels does bring to the team is a deep understanding of policy and politics and long-standing relationships on Capitol Hill that will help Mr. Bush sell his product. In addition, Mr. Daniels brings another critical strength: loyalty. Bush aides say the new president was determined not to hire a budget director like his father's, Richard Darman, who cut the 1990 tax-increase deal with congressional Democrats. That broke Mr. Bush's "no new taxes" campaign pledge and helped lead to his 1992 defeat.   
