19810511
WEST BERLIN, May 10— The Social Democratic Party of West Berlin suffered its worst losses since World War II in city elections tonight, straining the West German coalition Government of Chancellor Helmut Schmidt.  No party won a majority in the voting for the city Parliament, but the Christian Democrats made strong gains and became the dominant party in the legislature.  After early projections of the election results, West Berlin's Social Democratic Mayor, Hans-Jochen Vogel, announced that he would step down.  The Christian Democrats indicated that they would try to form a coalition government with the West Berlin Free Democrats, enticing them away from their traditional association with the Social Democrats, who are also their coalition partners in the federal Government in Bonn.  This created a situation in which it was likely that the Social Democrats would be excluded from government in West Berlin for only the second time since 1946.  If the Christian Democrats succeed in forming a government here with the Free Democrats, it would constitute a psychological blow for the Bonn coalition and give momentum to a national attempt by the Christian Democrats to loosen the relationship between the national coalition partners.  Talks on forming a new government are expected to begin tomorrow. The balloting, involving 85.5 percent of the 1.5 million eligible voters, brought the left-wing Alternative List party into the city Parliament for the first time. The group, which took away many leftwing voters from the Social Democrats, has taken strong anti-NATO positions and advocates reducing the garrisons of the allied powers in West Berlin to purely symbolic forces.  Based on partial returns, the voting gave the Christian Democrats 60 seats, the Social Democrats 49, the Free Democrats 7 and the Alternative List 9.  The Christian Democrats had 47.3 percent of the vote, a gain of 2.8 percent over the last elections in 1979; the Social Democrats 38.4 percent, a loss of 4.3 percent; the Free Democrats 5.5 percent, a loss of 2.6 percent, and the Alternative List 7.9 percent, a gain of 4.2 percent.  The Social Democrats' performance was their worst since 1946 in West Berlin, where they have ruled continuously except for a 14-month period in 1953 and 1954. The party had never previously fallen below 40 percent of the total vote. Schmidt Declines in a Poll  The success of the Alternative List and the Social Democratic Party's losses here are likely to strengthen the hand of leftists within the party who oppose Mr. Schmidt's support of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's decision to modernize its middle-range nuclear missiles in Western Europe.  The Social Democrats' losses coincided with the publication today of a public opinion poll that reported that Mr. Schmidt's popularity had declined to a lower level than that of Willy Brandt when he resigned as Chancellor in 1974. The poll, taken at the end of March, said that 60 percent of a representative sample now judged Mr.Schmidt's performance negatively while 39 percent were satisfied with it.  Discussing the West Berlin election results, Mr. Vogel, who was Mayor for three months after the previous city government resigned in January after a long period of scandal, said it ''should be a message to all of us in the party.''  His opponent, Richard von Weizsacker, a Christian Democrat, said he would seek to head a new government. ''Only we can form a government,'' he said. ''We will name people tomorrow to start negotiating. We're in front now.''  One of Mr. von Weizsacker's aides, Eberhard Diepgen, made clear that an approach to the Free Democrats was in the offing. Local Free Democratic Party officers have said that they did not want to form a coalition with the Christian Democrats, but it is widely assumed that the West Berlin group will come under pressure from the national leadership to switch allegiances in the city.  If this does not happen, Mr. von Weizsacker could form a minority government, or new elections could be called for September. Mr. Vogel has ruled out participation of his party in a grand coalition.  The issues in the election were largely local ones, but with national implications. Voters told public opinion surveyors that they were most concerned about the financial scandals that the previous Social Democratic governments had been involved in, the housing shortage in the city and a climate of diminished law and order that has developed from the occupation by squatters of 160 abandoned buildings.  The Social Democratic Party, which has been shaken by national debates over NATO policy, atomic energy and social reform, was attacked by the Alternative List, which has supported the squatters, as a traditional political machine. 
