19820804
''AS my friend Tom says, you never realize how many yellow cars there are - until you buy a yellow car.'' So starts an illuminating and forthright work, ''The Ostomy Book,'' on a hitherto ''secret'' health subject that affects more than 1.5 million Americans, with 100,000 added to the ranks each year.  Ostomies are surgically constructed openings that allow excretion of waste when the normal channels can no longer serve. Ostomies may be necessary because the usual routes are damaged or absent as a result of birth defect, injury, severe bowel disease or cancer surgery.  Most ostomies open onto the lower abdomen. The most common are colostomy, an opening for the colon after removal of the rectum or part of the colon or disconnection of the colon; ileostomy, for the small intestine after removal of the entire colon, and urostomy, for liquid wastes after removal or diversion of bladder or ureters. Some ostomies are temporary, allowing an ailing or damaged organ to heal, but most are permanent.  Though ostomies are little talked about - until recently the American Cancer Society suggested that patients refrain from mentioning them - they are more common that mastectomies, and because they involve functioning organs they require considerably more life adjustment than a mastectomy.  As a result of embarrassed silence, few people who face an ostomy have any awareness of it ahead of time or know anyone who has had one. Indeed, few people even know the word ''ostomy.'' Ignorance breeds fear and can seriously impair personal and family adjustments to life with an ostomy.  Because a patient had been misinformed and acquired no new information about the care of her colostomy, she wasted 20 years confined to her home. Others may delay needed surgery - and sometimes risk their lives in the process - because they mistakenly think life with an ostomy would not be worth living.  Not so, though, for Herb Black, a medical writer now retired from his job on The Boston Globe, who was found in 1968 to have rectal cancer. He faced surgery to remove his rectum, which would necessitate a colostomy; he quickly decided to have it.  Several years later at a medical conference in Florida I spent an afternoon with him. We were the only ones who braved the chilly weather that afternoon and took a swim. Indeed, Mr. Black took his colostomy so in stride that I forgot about it. In no way did it impede his life or his accomplishments; if anything it enhanced them since, given a second chance, he appreciated every aspect of life that much more. He spoke freely about his good fortune, helping others to understand, accept and live with an ostomy.  He is not alone. More and more, celebrities have been disclosing their ostomies: Rolf Benirschke, place-kicker for the San Diego Chargers; Otto Graham, former quarterback for the Cleveland Browns; Letitia Baldrige, the New York public-relations executive, and Ann Sothern and Loretta Young, the actresses.  Ordinary people have begun to speak up, too, telling about their athletic accomplishments, their worldwide travels, their marriages, their babies and even their sex lives after an ostomy.  They include a business executive who swims and plays golf despite his urostomy for bladder cancer years ago; a boy who as a toddler had a urostomy to compensate for a birth defect, and a college student whose colon surgery and ileostomy overcame her ulcerative colitis and dramatically enhanced the quality of her life (her grades and social life improved when she was no longer battling a chronic, debilitating illness).  They and others have taken to heart the admonition of the United Ostomy Association: ''No one need know unless you tell. But perhaps if you did tell people about yourself, then there would be fewer people afraid of ostomy surgery and its results.''  The principal instigator of ''The Ostomy Book,'' Barbara Dorr Mullen, has a colostomy as a result of lifesaving surgery for rectal cancer. She wrote the book with her daughter, Kerry Anne McGinn, a registered nurse, when she realized that ''ostomy surgery, a group of abdominal operations which save thousands of lives every year, remains wrapped in secrecy, taboos and nonsense.''  The book, available at $9.45 postpaid, was published in paperback in 1980 by Bull Publishing (P.O. Box 208, Palo Alto, Calif. 94302), which has also recently offered ''These Special Children: The Ostomy Book for Parents of Children With Colostomies, Ileostomies and Urostomies'' by Katherine F. Jeter. The price of this book is $15.95 postpaid.  Once an ostomy is established, several methods may be used to deal with body wastes. Many people are fitted with an external pouch that collects the wastes as they are expelled; properly fitted, it presents little risk of odor or leakage.  Most people with colostomies learn how to regulate their bowel movements so that there is little danger of inconvenience, though they may wear the pouch for security. Others with bowel ostomies prefer a scheduled irrigation, a form of enema that is done every one to three days. In some patients an internal pouch is created surgically to collect waste; the pouch is emptied periodically with an enemalike procedure; between times the ostomy is covered with a patch to prevent leakage. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
