20060313
 Doctors Search for Ways to Improve Detection of Dangerous Brain Aneurysms   By Helliker, Kevin, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 14, 2006  That a scan of their brains may have saved their lives is clear from the story of the most famous recent brain aneurysm in America, that of 60-year-old rock legend Neil Young. Beset by a vision problem, Mr. Young underwent a brain scan last year in New York that detected something altogether unrelated -- a dangerously large aneurysm. Very quickly, Mr. Young underwent a procedure to repair the aneurysm, which is a bulge in the weakened wall of an artery. The experience inspired a new album as well as the current movie, "Heart of Gold."  Discovery of asymptomatic brain aneurysms is usually accidental. Science has yet to solve the enormous challenge of making widespread screening useful and cost-effective. Doctors can broadly predict who is most at risk for aortic aneurysms, which can be detected with scans costing as little as $40 each. But brain aneurysms strike more randomly. They're also smaller, and detecting them requires significantly more sophisticated scans that can exceed $2,000 each.  An intense headache that strikes like a bullet warrants a trip to the emergency room, especially when accompanied by nausea or blurred vision. If your gut tells you it requires a scan, don't let a physician or nurse send you home with only a painkiller. In 1998, 33- year-old Elizabeth Riley walked into the ER at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago complaining of sudden headache, stiff neck and vomiting. After being sent home, she suffered a catastrophic brain- aneurysm rupture, leaving her permanently paralyzed with severe cognitive disabilities. She sued the doctors' group that runs the Northwestern ER, and settled out of court in 2002 for $17.5 million. The doctor's group said in a statement at the time: "This case was an enormous diagnostic challenge with human judgment and discretion exercised both by doctor and patient."   
