19811112
WHAT happens is this: the crazed reviewer disappears into the book. He has been gobbled up. He knows not where he is - lungs, pancreas, urinary tract, big toe. A novel like Robert Stone's ''A Flag for Sunrise,'' for example, is so consuming because it is ''about'' everything from the ''moral fascination'' of Vietnam to revolution in Central America to communications theory to the death of God. If Mr. Stone goes all the way, shouldn't the reviewer plunge after him, sink or swim? Perhaps not.  Gnosticism is probably the big toe of ''A Flag for Sunrise,'' where this reviewer got lost. Mr. Stone's ''whisky priest,'' Father Egan, is supposed to be ''the Christian humanist witness in a vicious world.'' Instead, in a jungle clearing, near a pyramid, in front of some Toltec stelae depicting human sacrifice, Father Egan preaches heresy. Surrounded by ''messengers'' from the north, he says that God is ''mislaid.'' He speaks of a ''secret love.'' He looks for buried ''spark,'' ''the particle of Light.'' He babies a killer.  Well, a crazed reviewer can spot the demiurge a mile away. That same demiurge has shown up in recent novels by Harold Bloom and Vincent Canby, as well as in Elaine Pagels's account of the Gnostic gospels. Why Gnosticism, and the derivative heresies of the Manichaeans and the Albigenses, should be making such a flashy comback mystifies - is God a schizophrenic? - but never mind. ''A Flag for Sunrise'' throbs with the stuff.  The crazed reviewer spends a day on the reference shelf, snuffling up demiurges. Certainly the ''angels'' go south and are devoured by ''matter.'' Maybe the United States is the demiurge. No wonder the blue-eyed sun is blind. When another of Mr. Stone's characters happens on a ''convocation of evil elements, a jar culture oozing out and discovering itself,'' is he pedantically reminding us of the discovery of the Gnostic ''library in a jar'' at Chenoboskion in the surprising Middle East? One hopes not. But - and so on. The crazed reviewer has gone south and is reporting from inside Mr. Stone's big toe. Other parts of the body are ignored.  Of, course, the heart and the backbone of this novel, not to mention the brain, are likely to be elsewhere. Perhaps Mr. Stone is saying that we can't think our way to faith. Perhaps his North Americans are in Tecan because of the bananas. Bananas, he tells us, are full of potassium: ''One of the symptoms of potassium insufficiency is a sense of existential dread.'' Wasn't Heidegger sort of Gnostic?  The problem is that novels as complicated and ambitious as ''A Flag for Sunrise'' frighten the reviewer into trying to compete with the book. Unless the reviewer is a very big boy indeed - one thinks of Melville on Hawthorne, Taine on Stendhal, Thomas Mann on Goethe, Valery on Mallarme, Isaiah Berlin on Tolstoy, Lionel Trilling on E.M. Forster, Edmund Wilson on the Dead Sea scrolls, Immanuel Kant on pure reason, Claude Levi-Strauss on table manners, and the English department at Yale University - this is dumb.  Early in the Russian Revolution, when Trotsky complained to Molotov about the incompetence of the Central Committee, Molotov is said to have spluttered: ''Comrade Trotsky, not everyone can be a genius.''  Exactly.  How much ought a reviewer to know? Stanley Edgar Hyman went so far as to suggest, in ''The Critic's Credentials,'' that nobody was qualified to review a modern novel who wasn't acquainted with psychoanalysis, anthropology, history, sociology, religion, philosophy, sports, ad absurdum. Matthew Arnold, after all, knew everything. So did that plagiarist, Coleridge. James Joyce, one recalls, learned Norwegian to read Ibsen.  Pass the bananas. We are asked to understand Gestalt psychology in order to ''grasp Kafka's fables imaginatively,'' whereas some of us might feel that we're better able to grasp Gestalt psychology because we appreciate Kafka. Is Proust really improved by prior knowledge of Henri Bergson; or Malraux by a familiarity with Heidegger, Jaspers, Kierkegaard and Nietzsche; or ''Goodbye Columbus'' by a deep steeping in Thorstein Veblen's ''Theory of the Leisure Class''? Yes, no and maybe.  On the other hand, I can't imagine why anyone acquainted with the Upanishads, the Diamond Sutra, Meister Eckhart, Dr. Suzuki, arhats, bodhisattvas, jivanmuktas, japam, Chuang-tzu and Epictetus would bother to read ''Franny and Zooey'' in the first place.  Suppose a critic were to tell you that Albert Camus once stayed in Andre Gide's apartment in Paris, where he used to swing on a trapeze in the living room, until it got embarrassing? That Dante Alighieri, contrary to popular impression, had a Mrs. Dante and four Danties, and nobody's name was Beatrice? That there also seem to have been two perky little Plutarchs, although their father wouldn't acknowledge them? That Sinclair Lewis, while an undergraduate at Yale, sold the plots of stories to Jack London, and they haggled over pennies of payment? That, according to Pascal, ''superstition equals concupiscence''? 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
