19810517
A Harvard Business School student, an Argentinian corporate executive, a French architect, a doughnut-shop worker from Secaucus, N.J., a nurse from Kentucky, a builder, a banker, a tattooed electrician, an inventor, a doctor, and a reporter were among 600 people who went on vacation together.  For a week, they had no contact at all with the world outside. No clocks and no news. No cars and no money, no telephones and no obligations. They were virtually forced to get to know one another.  That most - to a different degree and in a different way - could have a good time is why, I suppose, Club Med has proved so successful. It is not an easy thing to define, when you consider the unlikely mix of people that I (the reporter) found at Buccaneer's Creek in Martinique on a recent visit. But beautiful beaches, copious food, lots of sports and entertainment, and an atmosphere designed to make friends of strangers are undoubtedly some of the major reasons.  My decision to go on my first Club Med trip had been sudden. Cousins called to say they were going at a time when I craved an escape to the sun, but had not really wanted to travel alone. I now know there is no way to stay alone at Buccaneer's Creek for long.  My trip began with a group flight on American Airlines from Kennedy International Airport - where youthful travelers (including me) quickly began to size each other up. But the quiet flight down, it turned out, would bear no resemblance to the one coming back - when a frustrated steward would have to beg repeatedly for exuberant passengers to return to their seats as they sang and danced in the aisles, throwing confetti and planning reunions.  Once we landed in Martinique, we were greeted by tanned and handsome club workers of both sexes, called Gentils Organisateurs, or G.O.'s. They are counselors of sorts, who help give some of the clubs their reputation for keeping indoor-sports enthusiasts as busy as tennis players or swimmers.  ''What do you do here at the club?'' I naively asked one of them who engaged me in conversation my first night there. ''I am the G.O. in charge of making love to American tourists,'' he answered and then, grabbing my waist, suggested a walk on the beach. When I declined, he tried elsewhere and seemed to get better results.  To an extent, however, the image of sexual abandon that so many people associate with Buccaneer's Creek can sometimes work to its detriment. The week I was there, the ratio of men to women was about four-to-one, which prompted many of the male vacationers to complain of feelings of having been cheated. Single women like me naturally found this no terrible problem.  The ''chef du village,'' or head of the resort, Jean Bansard, told me the off-balance ratio was accidental. But I wondered if women, perhaps, had been scared away by the very thing many men said had attracted them there: Among Club Med's 87 resorts around the world, Buccaneer's Creek is known as the village for singles who want to swing.  ''You're led to believe there will be a million beautiful women craving men from New York,'' said one attractive 28-year-old New Yorker, who claimed his ''expectations were falsely built up.''  But more on this subject later. From the airport - where we received room assignments - we were taken in buses on an often careening, brake-squealing ride across the lush mountains of Martinique. An hour later, frazzled, we arrived at the club, to be greeted by singing and dancing G.O.'s in tiny bikinis.  Since single rooms are all but unknown in Club Med, I had been somewhat apprehensive about sharing a room with a stranger, but found myself paired with another woman from New York City whom I liked immediately. And one guest from Paris who did not get along with his assigned roommate told me that he had been able to change quarters without any trouble.  The 48-acre village, on a sandy beach on a mountain-ringed bay on the southern tip of the island, was set up along a palm-lined walk that ran parallel to the clear, light-blue water. As is the practice in most other Club Med villages, a percentage of the 300 rooms were reserved in advance for bookings from different countries, in order to guarantee an international mix in the guest population.  At Buccaneer's Creek the rooms are in two-story pastel-colored concrete buildings. All have their own shower-equipped bathrooms. Each had two -or in a few cases, three - wooden beds with matching night tables, a rocking chair and a white formica vanity with drawers and a mirror. The floors were tiled and the walls painted white, creating a crisp, uncluttered feeling that I like at a beach. My room was air conditioned and was kept clean (although others complained of poor housekeeping). But the only time I spent there was in changing clothes or sleeping.  At one end of the resort is the main building - a huge open-air structure that is the center of all activity. It houses the principal restaurant, bar, dance floor and stage for nightly shows, and offers such games as backgammon, chess, bridge and Ping-Pong. Other buildings near that end of the village are a boutique stocked with bright island clothes, a small shop for tobacco and sundries, a travel office, an infirmary, and a ''bank'' where you are urged to deposit all valuables. 1 2 3 4 NEXT PAGE > 
