19831117
THERE are people who might serve tea from the $30,000 Cubist tea service by the architect Richard Meier - on display with 10 other sterling silver services at the Max Protetch Gallery on West 57th Street - but the real issue of the exhibition is clearly design rather than Earl Grey.  Looking at Mr. Meier's elaborate service, the connoisseur is less likely to think of tea or even silver than of art history. The teapot recalls images of Cubist still-life paintings and even a specific Russian antecedent - a little-known pot designed in 1923 by the Suprematist Kasimir Malevich.  In 1979 the Italian tableware manufacturer Alessi, situated near Milan, commissioned a dozen internationally known architects to design tea and coffee services, with the expectation that the crossover of architects into industrial design would create unusual objects.  The Protetch show is a tempest of design issues somewhat subdued by the silver. The debates that have both troubled and stimulated architecture over the last decade seem, with this exhibition, to have entered the world of smaller domestic objects.  Mr. Meier, a New Yorker, took his inspiration from early modern art, while the Princeton, N.J., architect Michael Graves designed a service that looks like a composite of his postmodern structures. The Viennese architect Hans Hollein created a serving tray shaped like an aircraft carrier - surreally out of place on a table - and the Philadelphia architect Robert Venturi, looking to traditional English and American models, produced a teapot that actually resembles a teapot.  Mr. Protetch has named his show ''Architecture in Silver.'' But if all these silver services were buildings, the result would be a collection with little in common other than the fame of the creators and a certain level of artistic intention.  The functionalism of some of these services is doubtful. The handles of the teapots by the architect and historian Charles Jencks are almost nonexistent. Mr. Graves's tea and coffeepots have a satisfying sense of weight, appropriate for silver, but their balance makes pouring difficult.  The spouts of pots done by the Chicago architect Stanley Tigerman - shaped like human lips, slightly parted - are unsettling enough to lift one's thirst altogether. The sets done by Mr. Venturi, the Spanish architect Oscar Tusquets and the Italian architect Aldo Rossi are more convincing as objects that could really be used.  A large part of their function, however, is ceremony and display. Pouring from any of them elevates a cup of tea or coffee into an occasion; as objects they are handsome and impressive - their architectural forms make them seem larger. The silver is most alive in the sets that have global forms - those by Mr. Meier, Mr. Venturi and the Milanese architect Alessandro Mendini, who organized the program. The rounded surfaces capture highlights and peripheral reflections.  Alberto Alessi Anghini, managing director of the Alessi company, has said that he is interested in creating a relationship between design and industry to produce high-quality articles for everyday use.  Although the architects may have been under the impression that they were creating something viable for mass production, most of the pieces have turned out to be difficult and therefore expensive to make by machine; the apparently simple square corners of Mr. Graves's pieces, for example, require special treatment. Those by Mr. Venturi, Mr. Rossi and Mr. Tusquets are more conducive to industrial production, but they are exceptions.  The complex forms of the pieces - and the fact that they were signed and limited to editions of 99 - have made the collection a gallery event rather than an industrial program. The pieces in this show start at about $10,000; the Meier set is the most expensive.  Still, the marketing representative for Alessi, Thomas Sheehan of the E. B. M. Group of New York, says some of the simpler designs may be made in stainless steel. But even without a follow-up to this series, the tea and coffee services promise to have at least an indirect influence on the field of product design, as objects whose complex forms challenge the traditional dictates of a machine esthetic and machine production.  The services will be on view Tuesdays through Saturdays from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. at the Protetch Gallery, 37 West 57th Street, through next June.  photos of tea services 
