19820328
WASHINGTON, March 27— Soon after Fidel Castro's rise to power in 1959, Allen W. Dulles, the Director of Central Intelligence, told a Senate committee at a secret briefing that the Cuban leader did not have ''any Communist leanings,'' according to a report released today.  ''He has certainly shown great courage,'' Mr. Dulles said of Mr. Castro in his remarks on Jan. 16, 1959, before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. The committee made public a 900-page declassified report today on the hearings.  ''We do not think that Castro himself has any Communist leanings,'' Mr. Dulles said after Mr. Castro overthrew Fulgencio Batista. ''We do not believe Castro is in the pay of or working for the Communists.  ''We believe, however, that this is a situation on which the Communists could capitalize if there is not a move to get control of the situation more fully than Castro has control of it now.'' Opposed U.S. Intervention  Mr. Dulles made clear that he opposed any United States intervention in Cuba before or immediately after Mr. Castro's rise to power. He still headed the intelligence agency two years later during the unsuccessful Bay of Pigs invasion, which the C.I.A. directed.  ''American intervention there at this time,'' Mr. Dulles told the committee in January 1959, ''or even before, would have had a disastrous effect throughout the whole hemisphere, and I see no alternative. That is a matter of policy.''  Mr. Dulles was less generous about Castro's brother Raul, now Cuba's Defense Minister, and about Ernesto Che Guevara, the Argentine revolutionary who was head of Mr. Castro's agrarian program and who was killed in Bolivia in 1967.  ''His brother is more irresponsible,'' Mr. Dulles said. ''This fellow Che Guevara, the Argentinian who has been fighting with him, we are rather suspicious about him.'' 'Losing End of the Stick'  Mr. Dulles said of Mr. Batista, who fled from Havana to Miami on Jan. 1, 1959: ''We felt that Batista was on the losing end of the stick weeks before it came to an end. In fact, an effort was made through extra-diplomatic means, quietly, to see whether he would not depart, and an effort was made to see if one could put in an interim government that would at least permit negotiations with Castro. 
