19820609
In her outspoken way, Jeane Kirkpatrick has put it exactly right. Americans do behave like ''a bunch of amateurs'' at the United Nations, where she is chief U.S. delegate. And not just this last time, when Secretary Haig, apparently out of pique, failed to inform Mrs. Kirkpatrick in time that she was supposed to abstain on a Falkland resolution.  It could be set to music, and choreographed. ''Did you really try to call, Mr. Haig?'' asks a plaintive Mrs. Kirkpatrick, twirling a parasol. ''Absolutely, Mrs. K.,'' responds a dapper Mr. Haig, with a big wink. A chorus in striped pants then bursts into the refrain: ''It's confusing, it's amusing, it's abusing, and there's a corps in be-tweeeen.''  This isn't diplomacy, it's tomfoolery - or even worse, for it is not unusual. Other U.N. delegates somehow manage to cast the votes they are supposed to, without fuss. Why is it only the United States that is so prone to pratfalls?  The answer transcends the Haig-Kirkpatrick Follies: because only the United States considers the big U.N. job as a political plum. Of 16 U.S. representatives to the U.N., only one appointee was a Foreign Service officer: Charles Yost, who served under President Nixon. (Donald McHenry, by background a career diplomat, was a political appointee when named in 1979.)  Moreover, in 1953, Dwight Eisenhower had the unhappy idea of awarding cabinet rank to Henry Cabot Lodge; the custom has stuck. Again and again Presidents have used the office as high-visibility patronage. Hence the big parade: Cabot Lodge, Adlai Stevenson, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Andrew Young and Jeane Kirkpatrick, not to mention Arthur Goldberg, to whom Lyndon Johnson made the job sound worth leaving the Supreme Court for.  Is it any surprise that the U.S. Mission sees itself as a rival State Department? In fact, though Secretary Haig expresses himself with all the finesse of a main battle tank, his point is sound. Treating U.N. delegates with such reverence is a mischievous pretense. They cannot be the hierarchical equals of Secretaries of State. The latter must command the former - as Mrs. Kirkpatrick has just been reminded.  Why should this one ambassadorship be accorded an exalted cabinet rank? Because, the argument goes, it is a unique job; its holder speaks not just to another nation but to the world. If that is so, then why don't other countries treat their U.N. representatives the same way?  On assuming power, the Reagan team seemed intent on downgrading U.S. relations with the U.N. But by sending there a strong-minded academic with no diplomatic experience, the President was bound to magnify the job. Let his successors be forewarned. There's one sure way to ''normalize'' relations with the United Nations: send a professional. 
