19810526
WASHINGTON, May 25— Michael Pertschuk riffled through some papers on his office coffee table for the two latest labels editorial writers have attached to the Federal Trade Commission. ''The cowering puppy,'' read one. ''The 92-pound weakling,'' stated the other.  It was not that many years ago, the former F.T.C. chairman - currently a commissioner - recalled, that these same writers had given the agency such names as ''the Tyrannasaurus Rex of the regulatory agencies.''  That was in the early and mid-1970's, when the commission was breaking new ground in the area of antitrust law and consumer protection. The agency was a rejuvenated fighter stretching old approaches and testing new powers, some granted by Congress, others the result of the commission's own decision to broaden its scope.  But the past couple of years have transformed the nation's major consumer regulatory agency. Last year a bruising fight with Congress came close to crippling the commission, and while it eventually emerged reasonably intact, there is no doubt the battle formally initiated a new era of regulatory caution and lessened activity. No Permanent Chairman  Now the agency must contend with the Reagan Administration, which has cut back its budget and made an attempt to further curb its powers by removing its antitrust authority.  Of more immediate concern to many at the commission, it currently lacks the stability of a permanent chairman, a position the Reagan Administration is expected to fill shortly.  ''I'd say the mood is pretty bleak,'' said one commission staff member summing up the feelings expressed by many. ''Most of the staff feels that under the Reagan Administration the agency has no future.''  But there is still a wide gap between the feeling of frustration now apparent at the commission and the ineffectual agency of the early 1960's. Whatever problems the commission has, it still can count on an experienced staff gathered in the past decade and powers given it by Congress in the early 1970's. The question now is how best to hold on to both.  Last March Mr. Pertschuk, a liberal Democrat, turned over the chair of the commission to David A. Clanton, one of two Republicans on the four-member panel. Praise for Mr. Clanton  Everyone at the commission, from his fellow commissioners down to the staff level, has praise for Mr. Clanton. But few believe that Mr. Clanton, who now holds the title of acting chairman, will be named chairman by President Reagan.  Two men are said to head the list of candidates: Edward Weidenfeld, a Washington lawyer and Republican who served on the Reagan transition team, and James C. Miller 3d, a top staff member of the Office of Management and Budget who is the chief architect of the Reagan Administration's overhaul of Federal regulatory policies. It is believed that Mr. Miller is the front-runner; a number of other names have also been mentioned for the post.  The result of the current situation, most agree, is that the commission is virtually in limbo, awaiting new directions of a new leader.  ''The worst thing that can happen to an agency is prolonged limbo,'' said one commission official. ''That's more corrosive then anything. It generates boredom and uncertainty on the part of the staff and timidity on part of the commission. That's what's happened.'' Initiated Changes of Emphasis  Mr. Clanton disagrees with this assessment. While noting that as acting chairman he can do less than he could if he were given the tenure of full chairman, he believes that there have been changes of emphasis and direction for the staff to follow since he took office.  ''There's no uncertainty over who is in charge here,'' said Jack Schwartz, Mr. Clanton's executive assistant. ''Everybody is going about their job. I don't get a sense of people just sitting around waiting to see what happens next.''  Mr. Clanton laid out his ideas of where the commission should go shortly after being appointed acting chairman. He said then the commission would initiate fewer industrywide rule-making cases and that many of those begun would be narrowed. This has been done, continuing a trend intended to lower the agency's profile and reduce the impact of its decisions. The following actions exemplify the trend:  - On April 13 the commission voted to reject a rule that would make used-car dealers disclose defects in their vehicles and state plainly what warranty protection is provided. The staff is considering alternate proposals.  - In late January, before Mr. Clanton became acting chairman, the staff backed away from proposals to break up the eight largest oil companies in the United States. The staff also cut back relief proposals contemplated when it filed its complaint in 1973.  - On April 2, the commission staff dropped its investigation into regulating children's advertising on television, finding that the only effective remedy, banning ads, was impractical.  - In February the commission voted unanimously to abandon a proposal to regulate nonprescription drug advertising.  - This month the commission voted, again unanimously, to end its antitrust investigation into the auto industry because of changing economic conditions.  No one at the commission, and few outside of it, suggest that these actions were taken either to appease Congress, which now has the power to veto commission rules, or to further Mr. Clanton's chances of being appointed chairman. 'Calculating Caution'  ''The picture of the commission running away from everything is not valid,'' Mr. Pertschuk said. ''But the picture of the commission suffused with an air of calculating caution is exact.''  Mr. Schwartz believes that the timing of these decisions, coming out within a short period, made them stand out. ''It ought not to come as a shock to anyone that some of the initial thoughts and proposals turn out to be unworkable, turn out not to have the effect we thought they might,'' he said.  There are some major fights brewing for a new chairman. Perhaps the biggest will involve the fate of the commission's Bureau of Competition, which oversees its antitrust authority.  The Reagan Administration has already made one attempt to eliminate the bureau, moving that power to the Justice Department. Congress, small-business interests and others were able to stop that.  ''Congress's attitude seems to be: 'This is our agency to kick around, not yours,' '' said one commission official. Congressional hearings are also promised on the commission's authority to regulate professions, such as doctors and lawyers. Further, Congress is bound sooner or later to try to use its new weapon, the legislative veto, to curb the commission's activity  Thus, it is not at all clear that the commission's strategy of keeping its head down and its rulings narrow will save the agency from more trouble in the future.  Illustrations: Photo of James Miller 
