20070409
 The Evening Wrap: Opening Day for Earnings Online edition  By Annett, Tim, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 10, 2007  The dollar came in for a thrashing in trading this morning, as traders worried about the prospect of a trade war between the U.S. and China following some recent moves by the Bush administration. "History has shown consistent empirical evidence that nations pursuing protectionist rhetoric will experience declines in the value of their currencies," said currency analyst Ashraf Laidi. "This occurred during the Clinton administration's trade war with Japan, and more recently in 2002 upon the Bush administration's decision to slap tariffs on foreign steel." The U.S. filed new complaints against China at the World Trade Organization over copyright enforcement and restrictions on the sale of U.S. movies, music and books. China replied that it was "strongly dissatisfied" with the development. The dollar dropped sharply against the euro and was also weaker against the yen, which itself lost ground to other currencies after Japan's central bank left interest rates on hold. In other market action, Treasury yields fell; the 10-year yield ended trade at 4.724%. Crude-oil prices climbed slightly, inching back to $61.89 a barrel. Stocks in Europe and Asia were mixed.  President Bush invited Democrats to discuss their standoff over a war-spending bill, but made clear he wouldn't change his position refusing troop withdrawals, and the White House stressed that any talks wouldn't be a negotiation. "It's time for them to get the job done, so I'm inviting congressional leaders from both parties to meet with me at the White House next week," Mr. Bush said. "We can discuss the way forward on a bill that is a clean bill, a bill that funds our troops without artificial timetables for withdrawal and without handcuffing our generals on the ground." Democratic leaders said they're ready to sit down and talk with Mr. Bush, but Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said he must "take a seat at the table of negotiation, of compromise, of direction change." A date hasn't been set for the meeting. The Senate returned from recess Monday. The House returns next week. Meanwhile in Iraq, a female suicide bomber killed at least 16 people after detonating herself amid a crowd of police recruits. And an intense, daylong battle in central Baghdad ended with four Iraqi soldiers killed, 16 U.S. soldiers wounded. The military also announced four more U.S. deaths.  D.R. Horton Chief Executive Donald Tomnitz famously warned investors last month that "I don't want to be too sophisticated here, but '07 is going to suck" for his company, the nation's biggest homebuilder by volume. The latest data from the builder suggest he wasn't kidding. Horton reported that orders during its second quarter dropped 37% from last year, as it continued to be lashed by housing's woes. California operations, which account for the biggest slice of its revenues, booked a 59% plunge in orders. The Northeast had the smallest drop, stumbling by a nonetheless-harrowing 21%. "Market conditions for new home sales continue to be challenging in most of our markets as inventory levels of both new and existing homes remain high," said Chairman Donald R. Horton. He said cancellations are essentially flat but remain "above our historical range as we continue to see an increase in the use of sales incentives."   
