20070205
 The Budget Battle and Your Wallet; How Plans to Expand Health Coverage Could Affect Insured   By Meckler, Laura, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 6, 2007  Some experts see another potential problem: If younger, healthier employees use the tax deduction to buy insurance on their own, rather than through their employers, then employer health plans could end up with mostly older, sicker workers, resulting in higher premiums. "It's good for you if you're a healthy person who will do well on your own," says Paul Fronstin, director of health research and education programs at the Employee Benefit Research Institute. "It's bad if you are not."  Under this plan, people with insurance will have a greater choice of health plans than most get from work today, given that the market is likely to produce more options. But as health costs and insurance premiums rise, families would have to absorb the increase. As is, employers pass the cost of rising health care to their workers through higher premiums and lower wages, but workers don't always feel the impact, says John Sheils of Lewin Group, a health-care consulting firm that helped develop the [Ron Wyden] plan. Everyone would be required to buy insurance even if they don't think they need it. Sen. Wyden describes a young, healthy man he met in central Oregon who told him that he didn't think he needed coverage. Sen. Wyden noted that the young man was a skier and asked him, "What if you crack up on the mountain?" The man replied that if he got hurt he would buy insurance then. "That's not how insurance works," Sen. Wyden says. "This is going to be a huge education job."  [John Edwards]'S PLAN: Former Sen. Edwards's plan wouldn't require any changes of employees currently getting insurance on the job, although employers would have to provide coverage or pay 6% of their payroll. He would use a blend of new tax increases, tax breaks and subsidies to expand coverage. Under his proposal, people who don't get insurance through work could buy into public pools called Health Markets, with tax credits to help pay the premiums. Further, insurance companies wouldn't be able to charge sick people extra and would be required to insure everyone who applied. Mr. Edwards also would expand Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program, to cover more families and, for the first time, poor adults without kids. Once it was all in place, he would require nearly all Americans to get coverage one way or another.   
