19820603
BOISE, Idaho, June 2— A 17-year-old boy, who died after being tortured and beaten in a county jail, had been placed there by his parents to face the consequences of failure to pay $60 in traffic fines, his mother said today.  ''As his parents, we thought it would be a deterrent for him to take care of it on his own,'' Janice Peterman said. ''We had no idea it was going to turn out like this.''  Christopher Peterman, who would have turned 18 next month, was beaten, kicked and tortured by having burning toilet paper stuck between his toes for almost five hours Monday in what the authorities called a ''sadistic'' slaying.  The attack is believed to have occurred at the hands of five other juvenile prisoners housed in a single cell. 5 Charged With Murder  Deputy Prosecutor Greg Bower of Ada County said the five 17-yearold youths were charged with first-degree murder and would be tried as adults. Before the attack they were all being held for nonviolent crimes, two of them for traffic violations.  Randall McKeown, Sean Matthews, Joseph Krahn and Richard Engie were arraigned this afternoon before Magistrate George Carey of Ada County. Arraignment for the fifth defendant, Andy Anderson, was delayed until Thursday to allow him time to get a lawyer.  Magistrate Carey ordered the youths held in the Ada County jail without bond and set a preliminary hearing date for June 17. ''There's a lot of anger in our family,'' Mrs. Peterman said. ''He has four brothers and two half-sisters, and we're angry.'' Mrs. Peterman vowed to force officials to change jail procedures. ''It's not Chris' fault that they didn't do their job right,'' she said. ''But he had to pay for it.'' Sheriff Defends Procedures  Sheriff Chuck Palmer said that proper jail procedures were followed and that the Peterman youth never called to jailers for help. He said jailers checked the youths five times over the five-hour period and saw nothing unusual.  Guards found the youth in the jail's exercise yard shortly before 2 P.M. Monday, he said. Other inmates later said the incident in the yard apparently followed a quarrel among the six that began at midnight. They told investigators they also heard four and a half hours of noises that sounded like a beating coming from the cell and later in the yard.  The youth died at 6 P.M. Monday at a local hospital because of severe bleeding in his brain, Chief Deputy Coroner Erwin Sonnenberg said.  ''It's hard to determine if there was anything we could have done to prevent this,'' Sheriff Palmer said. He added that the department would review its procedures to see if improvements could be made in the handling of inmates.  Illustrations: photo of Christopher Peterman 
