20030313
 Tastings: Open That Bottle, 2003   By By Dorothy J. Gaiter and John Brecher, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 14, 2003  Every year, celebrants find that wine can conjure up memories in a way few other things can, though each OTBN is a little different. Back in the late '90s, expensive California "cult wines" were popular for OTBN, but this time we barely heard about them. Last year, just a few months after the Sept. 11 attacks, most of the events were low-key and intimate, as though America were emotionally wrung out. This year was all about gathering together. One interesting note: While in past years many people used OTBN as an excellent opportunity to spend a night away from the kids, more children than ever were part of the events this year -- albeit with Kool-Aid and grape juice.  As always, OTBN this year sometimes corresponded with other special events. Burnell Eckardt of Sheboygan, Wis., finally opened a 1966 Chateau Rausan-Segla to mark OTBN and the date, 56 years earlier, that he proposed to his wife, Nancy. Richard Dinkelspiel of San Rafael, Calif., celebrated his 90th birthday with a 1985 Chateau Lafite-Rothschild and his children, "9 1/2 grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren" and several spouses. [Barbara Pepe] and Sidney Smith of Barrington, R.I., opened a 1990 Dom Perignon to celebrate OTBN and their 25th anniversary, "while we were still young enough to drink an entire bottle in one sitting and young enough to remember why," they wrote.  Of course, when push came to shove, some people couldn't stand to open their bottle. Before OTBN, we received a letter from Christina and Tim Clark of Easton, Conn., who posed as a bottle of Chateau Margaux '52. "I am writing you on behalf of all great old wines to complain about Open That Bottle Night. Ever since you started OTBN you've ruined the lives of many of us old bottles of wines. We're scared! Fine wines should be traded, auctioned but NEVER consumed." The bottle got a reprieve. The Clarks drank a Merlot instead.   
