19820217
IN New York's butcher shops and supermarkets there are aged prime ribs from Iowa, rosy pork roasts from Nebraska and Ohio, plumplooking chickens from Maryland and Pennsylvania, neatly rolled and ready-for-roasting lamb from Colorado and Utah and even milk-fed veal from Brooklyn. There is no doubt that the city offers shoppers a remarkable variety of meat and poultry. But how fresh is it? Most of the meat in stores here is available within four or five days of being slaughtered; poultry often within a day or two. However, freshness, if one is talking about age alone, cannot be easily defined for these foods. The fact is, beef actually improves in flavor if it is aged properly for a week or two. To some tastes, lamb and many types of This is the second of four articles on freshness in food. game are also better after aging. Anyone who has tried to eat a chicken or turkey the same day that it is killed knows what it's like to eat rubber; these birds have to sit for a day, long enough for the muscles to relax, before they can be properly cooked. Pork, veal and organ meats need to be eaten quickly, certainly within a week, or they will spoil.  Freshness, then, might best be defined as the point at which meat or poultry reaches its peak of flavor and texture while still maintaining its nutritive properties. Unlike fruits and vegetables, whose appearances can often be deceiving, meat is generally ''fresh'' if it looks fresh. The eye can easily detect a stale piece of meat; the nose can easily locate a spoiled cut, as long as it isn't wrapped in plastic.  A good guideline to follow when choosing any meat is to look for a moist, satiny patina to the skin, a vibrant color and a springiness in the flesh. Beware of meat that is wet to the point of being sodden: that usually means it has been frozen and then thawed or that it has been stored for too long. Avoid bloody cuts: blood will turn rancid before the meat does. Poultry, too, should have a moist, smooth skin with no dry patches.  About 70 percent of the beef on sale in New York City is boxed, or transported from the Middle West in airtight, vacuum-sealed bags that are then packed in boxes. Some lamb and veal and, to a lesser extent, pork, ducks, turkeys and large roasting chickens are also vacuumpacked. These packs come in various sizes: Beef is usually divided into primal cuts - round, arm chuck, rib and loin - or further processed into smaller cuts weighing between 15 and 20 pounds; poultry is packaged in individual bags. Most vacuum packs are marketed under the trade name Cryovac, a product of the W.R. Grace Company.  After the animal is slaughtered, the meat is chilled for 24 hours. Sometimes it is sprayed with a solution containing chlorine to reduce the bacteria count. Industry spokesmen say that only the outside of the carcass is sprayed and they contend that this does not affect the taste of the meat. After the carcass is cut up, it is packed in airtight bags from which almost all oxygen is excluded. The bags are packed into boxes and shipped at a temperature of 28 degrees.  Meat processors and supermarkets like vacuum-packing because meat packed this way is cheaper to transport, easier to store and has a longer shelf life than a carcass. The excess fat and bones are removed at the plant and the supermarket butchers have little more to do than slice the meat and put it on the counter.  By removing the oxygen, which encourages the growth of bacteria, vacuum-packed meat can be kept for as long as four to six weeks, depending on the cut and type of meat. The lack of oxygen causes vacuum-packed meat to turn dark purple and develop a gassy smell. But once the pack is opened at the store the color, or bloom, as it is called in the industry, returns to the meat as oxygen reaches it. Supermarket spokesmen contend that the smell quickly goes away, but many butchers say that meat left for longer than a few days in vacuum packs can develop a sour taste that doesn't disappear even when the meat has been aired.  ''The meat lies in its own blood in the package,'' said Stanley Lobel of Lobel's Prime Meats, on the East Side. ''If a package has been around for several weeks, beef gets a strong odor which does not disappear and it doesn't have the firmness of a regular aged piece of beef.''  ''There is no date on the package so the retailer does not know how old it is,'' said John Montuori of Jefferson Market in Greenwich Village. ''I have had Cornish hens packed in Cryovac that were unusable. I had to throw the whole box out. Cryovac is very economical but you can't age meat when it's packed that way because the fat covering has been cut off. If it aged as well as meat that is hung, then everyone would do it that way because they would not have the loss that comes with trimming.''  However, Glen Rosengarten, vice president of Shopwell supermarkets, said, ''The difference is entirely subjective. Boxed beef is processed in hospital-like conditions, it ages in the bag and there is no waste. Hanging beef gets more bacteria and people who buy it are getting ripped off. I will argue with anyone on the merits of boxed beef versus hung beef.'' 1 2 3 NEXT PAGE > 
