19811120
WASHINGTON, Nov. 19— Television cameras and photographers focused on a green-eyed woman recently as she made her way across the lobby of the Fairfax Hotel here toward a cluster of people awaiting her at the head of the marble staircase.  She was Nouha Alhegelan, wife of Sheikh Faisal Alhegelan, Saudi Arabia's Ambassador to Washington, and she had come to make a speech about ''building a bridge'' between the East and the West.  For the two years that the Alhegelans have been posted in Washington, Mrs. Alhegelan has abandoned the traditional Arab dress and the restricted style of life that is customary for a woman in Saudi Arabia, ways to which she returns when she goes back home. She has made more than 50 speeches in this country to groups ranging from the World Affairs Council of San Diego to the Foreign Policy Association in New York and the Southern Center for International Studies in Atlanta, Ga. And she has received rave notices.  ''She's dynamite,'' says Patrick Daly, a protocol officer at the Department of State. ''Her very presence dispels a lot of myths,'' said Sheryl Ameen, an art historian here who organizes exhibitions about the Arab world. Months of Frustration  The past few months have not been easy ones for the Alhegelans what with the long Senate debate over the sale of Awacs, the accompanying daily news accounts about Saudi Arabia's ''feudal society'' and nagging questions about the stability of the desert kingdom.  Mrs. Alhegelan says: ''It was terrible. It was frustrating. You feel like answering every article, but you don't.'' ''I think like an Arab, of course,'' she added, ''and I had to stop and think how I would feel if I were an American. I want to try and understand the people I am living with. But my conflicts were eased with the vote and, in the end, a pro-American vote, which was the most important thing.''  In the protracted maneuvering on the Awacs issue, Ambassador Alhegelan, a carefully reserved man, kept a low profile, leaving much of the lobbying to Prince Bandar bin Sultan, a member of the royal family who was the special Saudi representative on the issue. But the ambassador, an urbane career diplomat who speaks English with a British accent and was educated in Cairo, met on several occasions with President Reagan. Other Assignments  Mr. Alhegelan was Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Venezuela, Denmark, Spain and Great Britain before arriving in the most sensitive of all posts, Washington.  The couple's first Washington party in celebration of Saudi Arabia's National Day was an event at the Corcoran Gallery of Art with stuffed pheasants adorning the buffet tables and a guest list that made even blase Washingtonians sit up and take notice.  ''That was it - never again,'' said Mrs. Alhegelan with a smile. ''At least,'' she said, ''we won't do that again until our farewell party.''  In a city in which diplomatic entertaining is considered serious business, it is often the ambassadorial wife who sets the tone and pace, and Mrs. Alhegelan has brought her own distinctive style to an embassy that in the past has often ranked at the lower end of the diplomatic pecking order.  She occasionally runs errands in her orange Fiat, wears jeans about the residence in the morning and dresses in understated elegance for more formal occasions. Their dinner parties for 30 or 40 are a mix of diplomatic, political and ''old'' Washington, and often also include visiting Saudi Arabian figures such as Prince Bandar. 'A Low-Key People'  Their guest lists have ranged from Vice President and Mrs. Bush and White House figures, such as the James A. Bakers, the Michael Deavers and the Edwin Meeses, to members of Congress, corporate figures and State Department officials. ''The way we entertain is really a personal statement,'' said Mrs. Alhegelan, ''but the Saudis are a low-key people, and it is well within the national character.''  She was sitting on a deep sofa in the drawing room of the embassy residence, alternately puffing on a cigarette and fingering one of the hammered silver objects that rested on the coffee table.  Mrs. Alhegelan, 41 years old, is a native of Syria who speaks six languages, holds a law degree from Damascus University, and took ''a shortcut'' into the diplomatic service as she put it, when she met her husband, now 51. Three months later they married, and there are now three sons, Omar, 15; Hisham, 18; and Khalid, 19.  When Mrs. Alhegelan talks to American groups, she focuses primarily on an historical overview of the Middle East. But the questions that follow quickly turn to politics, ranging from the Palestinian issue and the state of Israel to Islam and feminisim and penal law in Saudi Arabia.  In view of the upsurge of Islamic militancy in the Middle East, some Washingtonians wonder how Mrs. Alhegelan's candor and travel and speech-making goes over in Riyadh.  Has she received any indication that her activity is regarded as inappropriate? ''Not yet,'' she replied with a smile.  Illustrations: Photo of President of Saudi Arabia and his wife Nouha 
