20040513
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Events: Well, Aren't You Special; Clubs, Airlines and Theaters Lower the Bar for VIP Status; Vegas Important Person, $30   By Szuchman, Paula, The Wall Street Journal,  May 14, 2004  Fanfare for the Common Man  With VIP-style perks popping up all over, it doesn't take much to feel like a star. Here, a sampling of companies marketing royal treatment for ordinary folks.  ORGANIZATION: Abercrombie & Kent; Discovery Tours PRICE: $300-$400/day COMMENTS: About half the cost of the tour operator's typical programs, but with the same insider access (such as lunch with diplomats in Shanghai). The difference: cheaper hotels and restaurants.  ORGANIZATION: Cinema de Lux movie theaters; Director's Halls PRICE: $2.40 (plus the movie ticket) COMMENTS: Separate theater has private entrance, ushers and a bigger screen. Seats are pre-assigned -- and they're reclining leather chairs.  ORGANIZATION: Orlando-UCF Shakespeare Festival; Poker game with director PRICE: $150 COMMENTS: Members bid in silent auction for access to poker games with festival director and major donors. "It was a real opportunity," says one winner.  ORGANIZATION: Rock and Roll Hall of Fame; President's Tour PRICE: $500 COMMENTS: Ninety-minute private tour with curator of closed-to-the-public vault. Hidden treasures include Muddy -Waters's passport and a Bob Marley dreadlock.  ORGANIZATION: Stubhub.com; Tickets to taping of "Dr. Phil" PRICE: $50 COMMENTS: Tickets are normally free, but can take up to a year to get for most people. This site also has tickets to VIP movie events, including premieres. With the economy on an upswing, some companies figure exclusive clubs and passes will spark renewed spending. In January, United Airlines launched a luxury travel club, Ameniti (it's pronounced like "amenity" but an official for the club says it's supposed to look like "Armani"). For $295 a year, members get two passes to the airline's Red Carpet Club, a bottle of wine and a free companion ticket every time they buy a domestic full-fare seat. United's research shows premium travelers "aren't going to buy full fare without getting something in return," says managing director Scott Garner. Indeed, after a few years of belt-tightening, even affluent consumers are more conscious about how they spend their cash: 45% say they feel better off financially than they did last year, but only 30% are actually spending more, according to Unity Marketing.   
