19810922
EVERYONE knows you can't do a musical about sports. ''Damn Yankees'' was an aberration, and it really wasn't about baseball, anyway. So, why are these people doing ''The First,'' a musical about Jackie Robinson? Even Rachel Robinson, Mr. Robinson's widow, once had doubts. ''I thought it was ridiculous,'' she said. ''I called my lawyer about it. Could you imagine Jack singing and dancing on Broadway?''  No, of course not. Whatever your recollection of Mr. Robinson - sliding into home, perhaps, or arguing, or walking across the infield with that peculiar pigeon-toed walk - it is scarcely a recollection of a song-and-dance man. He was the first black baseball player to reach the major leagues, and when he joined the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947 it was a kind of revolution. Did anyone ever upset the established order as much as Mr. Robinson? It is unlikely.  ''This is not a frivolous show,'' said Martin Charnin, the director and lyricist for ''The First.'' ''The fans in Ebbets Field won't sing 'Hello, Jackie' in waiters' uniforms. We won't say, 'Write in more jokes for Branch Rickey.' This is about 1946 and '47, two emotionally terrifying years.'' A Furious Reaction  In Mr. Robinson's first season with the Dodgers, some of his teammates asked to be traded; they wouldn't play with a black man. The St. Louis Cardinals threatened to go on strike. Ben Chapman, the manager of the Philadelphia Phillies, said he wouldn't appear in the same ballpark as Mr. Robinson.  And in neighborhoods in Brooklyn, where you could walk whole blocks listening to the radios in first-floor windows that were tuned into the ball game, there was consternation. Sometimes it was ugly; sometimes it was only uninformed: The colored, white people who seemed perfectly nice said, were taking over.  ''Martin Charnin came up to the house. We sat on the back porch and talked,'' Mrs. Robinson said, recalling how she first became involved with the musical. ''He reminded me that a musical didn't have to be 'No, No, Nanette,' and that it could depict the socially significant. Then I had to get over my general ambivalence about seeing myself and my family depicted on stage.'' Work Starts Immedi atel y  In fact, ''The First'' got under way a year ago last April, when Mr. Charnin met his friend, Joel Siegel, the television critic, in their business manager's office. Mr. Siegel suggested they do a musical about Mr. Robinson. ''It was a sledgehammer moment,'' Mr. Charnin says reverentially. ''We started work the next day.''  Subsequently, Mr. Siegel wrote the book. Mr. Charnin and Robert Brush wrote the score. Zev Bufman came along to produce it. David Alan Grier, barely out of the Yale School of Drama, was cast as Mr. Robinson. Lonette McKee was signed to play his wife, and Darren McGavin was cast as Branch Rickey, the president of the Dodgers. Rehearsals began in a studio on Broadway at the end of August.  ''It's really a love story,'' Mr. Charnin said the other day. He was in the studio, working on a scene with Miss McKee and Mr. Grier. As Rachel and Jackie, they were supposed to be meeting at a train station in Chicago.  ''Babe, come to New York. We'll get married in New York,'' Mr. Grier said. She's Mildly Upset  Miss McKee was supposed to be full of affection, but mildly upset, at Mr. Grier's temerity. Better, she said, that they get married in her mother's house in California.  In another room in the studio, meanwhile, Alan Johnson, the choreographer, was rehearsing the actors who were supposed to be the Kansas City Monarchs, the black baseball team. In fact, Mr. Johnson, who is white, was teaching the actors, who were in their 20's, how blacks were supposed to sing and dance in the 1940's. Satire was in the air. One expected the lyric to be something like ''Hidey, hidey, hidey ho.'' Actually, it was ''Do, do, do it/ You do, do, do it.'' Later in the show the Monarchs sing a song called ''This Year's Nigger.''  ''Darling, be careful,'' Mr. Charnin was saying now to Miss McKee, ''you can't get physical with him.'' He did not want her to touch Mr. Grier during the scene. Mr. Charnin, whose hair falls to his shoulders, and whose beard is shot with gray, has put on weight since he was the director and lyricist of ''Annie'' in 1977. Bouncing up and down on a stool in the rehearsal studio, he looked like a hip Old Testament prophet. Some Rueful Amusement  ''You know me / No drinking, no smoking / And I'm gorgeous,'' Mr. Grier sang. Miss McKee was supposed to show rueful amusement. Then she and Mr. Grier were to part - he to go on to New York for a game, she to stay behind in Chicago for the weekend. Miss McKee turned and walked silently across what was supposed to be the train station. It was obvious, however, that something was missing.  ''Maybe you say, 'Now what the hell do I do in Chicago?' '' Mr. Charnin said. ''Maybe, 'What do I do in Chicago for two days'?'' Mr. Siegel volunteered. ''What the hell do I do in Chicago for two days?'' Miss McKee said. ''I don't know anyone, anyone at all.'' Miss McKee, who is extraordinarily pretty, started to mumble as she walked. Mr. McGavin, who was watching, broke into applause. Mr. Siegel beamed. Mr. Charnin came over and gave Miss McKee a hug, and with great smiles everyone broke for lunch.  Illustrations: Photo of the cast of 'First' 
