19820213
GAINESVILLE, Fla., Feb. 12— Gloria Jean Davis's head began pounding on June 6, 1978. She saw bright, flashing lights. Then her right arm and leg became partly paralyzed. Finally, in an ambulance on the way to Palmyra Park Hospital in Albany, Ga., the mother of four slipped into unconsciousness.  Mrs. Davis had suffered a stroke, even though she was an unlikely victim: only 26 years old with no history of hypertension. Mrs. Davis's doctor, William E. Mayher 3d, concluded that, unlike most cerebral hemorrhages, hers was caused by her nonprescription diet pills, Appedrine.  Mrs. Davis sued the Thompson Medical Company, the maker of Appedrine, charging that the phenylpropanolamine (PPA) in the pills had caused her stroke. About a year ago, the company agreed to pay $125,000 in an out-of-court settlement to Mrs. Davis, who, as a result of the stroke, is now permanently paralyzed on her right side. Spokesmen for the company said they had settled Mrs. Davis's suit out of court simply to avoid expensive litigation.  Margaret Forgnone, director of the University of Florida Drug Information Center in Gainesville, said that Mrs. Davis's case fits a pattern of medical problems emerging across the country, involving dietary aids that contain the PPA ingredient, which are considered safe enough to be sold without a prescription. Yet Mrs. Davis said she took the recommended dosage. Some Skepticism Expressed  The National Clearing House for poison control centers in August estimated that it handles each year 10,000 reports of phenylpropanolamine poisoning and that the drug forces at least 1,000 to seek emergency care. The Medical Letter, a nonprofit publication that keeps doctors abreast of the latest developments on drugs, is also skeptical about the effectiveness of chemical dietary aids, as is the American Medical Association. Despite thi s, products containing the PPA ingredient remain among the most wide ly sold drugs in America. In fact, last year alone nearly four m illion Americans consumed about 10 billion doses of products cont aining phenylpropanolamine.  It is the active ingredient in nearly every over-the-counter diet pill as well as most cough and cold remedies. ''Every household in American can find a PPA product in its medicine chest,'' said Dean Siegal, a spokesman for Thompson, the largest manufacturer of diet pills, with about 10 brands on the market.  The Federal Drug Administration, which has been examining the PPA products and adjudicates disputes concerning drug safety, appears to have been leaning in the other direction. In March 1979, an F.D.A. advisory panel of doctors and scientists reported that the drug ''may help people lose weight effectively.'' The panel also proposed allowing manufacturers to double the maximum daily dose of the PPA substance in diet pills, from 75 to 150 milligrams. Although the F.D.A. refused to approve the higher dosage, the agency spent the next three years reviewing the panel's conclusions. Conclusions to Be Published  Last year, Richard S. Schweiker, Secretary of Health and Human Services, assumed control of the F.D.A. review as part of the Administration's policy of reducing Federal regulation. Mr. Schweiker's conclusions are scheduled to be published in the next several months, though it may be years before a final F.D.A. decision is reached. Despite the F.D.A. panel's assertions, many researchers said the drug is virtually useless as a diet aid and m ay cause hypertension, strokes and psychoses. They want it banned in diet pills, although they say it may be useful as a decongestant.  In October, the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a Washington consumer advocacy group, petitioned the F.D.A. to ban dietary aids containing the PPA ingredient. In an April 3, 1981, editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association, Alan Blum, president of Doctors Ought to Care, called for a ban on the ''manufacture, sale and distribution'' of products containing the PPA ingredient. DOC is a physician advocacy group that campaigns against drug abuse.  Diet pills are now ''the most abused drugs'' sold legally or illegally, said Mrs. Forgnone. ''I think the drug is dangerous and should be taken off the market,'' she said. Sorell Schwartz, a pharmacology professor at the Georgetown University School of Medicine, said that pills with the PPA ingredient ''are all risk and no benefit.''  The Thompson Medical Company and the SmithKline Corporation, the second largest manufacturer of the pills, market about 15 brands, including Ayds, Dexatrim, Dietac, Hungrex and Coffee, Tea and New Me. The products' names may change, but the active ingredient remains phenylpropanolamine - sometimes mixed with caffeine or vitamins. The drug manufacturers say that their studies show that the drug is both effective and safe, provided consumers follow usage directions.  The drug companies rejected all reports that the pills in recommended dosages cause hypertension, strokes or psychoses. They said follow-up studies show that victims of side effects invariably abuse phenylpropanolamine and that thousands of unsolicited testimonials prove that the dietary aids are effective. ''The benefits far exceed the risks for the vast majority of the American public,'' said Mr. Siegal. ''We're a very socially responsible company. It's one of our themes.'' 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
