20030815
 Beirut, Baghdad   By Ajami, Fouad, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 25, 2003  For our enemies, it is mightily important that we fail in Baghdad, and be forced to leave. Who would wish us well -- strangers trumpeting new possibilities in lands made weary by cruelty and cynicism? As we had sacked the Tikriti-Sunni order, what assurance was there that the minority Alawite regime in Syria would survive? It is a trifle gentler than was the Tikriti dominion in Iraq, but it, too, is a state of plunder and terror, a regime that once spoke of a new Arab heaven only to turn into a petty inheritance. There is menace in the demonstration effect of our victory: Embattled Arab and Iranian secularists and liberals are living off the nascent Iraq promise. That promise has to be snuffed out if the entrenched systems are to survive. If a moderate brand of Shiism takes hold in Iraq, on Shiism's holiest grounds, there would be reverberations for Iran's theocracy. It stood to reason that these ruthless rulers would fight back.  There are allies in Kuwait and Qatar who had bet on our victory in Iraq. But it was more treacherous in other neighboring lands. We pay dearly for an American presence in Cairo, but who there wishes us well? The street there had grieved for Saddam Hussein; it turned on him when he failed to give it an "Arab Stalingrad," an epic of resistance. It has drawn a measure of satisfaction from the rearguard action in Baghdad and Fallujah and Tikrit, for a virulent anti- Americanism has come to poison Egypt's political life. Nor has our man on the Nile, Hosni Mubarak, been supportive of our endeavor. He worries that a new forward base of American power will rise in Baghdad, close to the sea-lanes at the heart of the oil lands, and pose a serious challenge to Egypt's lucrative relationship with Washington. That relationship has been on Cairo's terms. A reasonably secular, representative model in Baghdad would steal a march on Cairo. That Sublime Porte in Washington -- generous but naive and far away -- could grow wiser after time on the ground in Baghdad. The terrible secret of Egypt's retreat from modernism could be given away to the Americans.   
