19811125
WASHINGTON, Nov. 24— Budget cuts have caused the Census Bureau to delay or to cancel reports of important findings from the 1980 population count and to say it cannot afford to conduct a 1985 middecade census that Congress has mandated.  And further reductions projected by the Reagan Administration over the next two fiscal years have cast doubt on the bureau's plans to modernize its equipment and techniques, a step that officials say would save money and increase efficiency.  Repeated delays in issuing 1980 Census data have brought a rumbling of complaints from census users who rely on detailed characteristics of the population by county, city and communities to market products or carry out public planning on such matters as the closing or construction of schools. Hope on Containing Problem  However, Bruce K. Chapman, who was confirmed two months ago by the Senate as director of the census and who is trying to rebuild the beleaguered agency, said in an interview that the cuts had not been as deep as had been feared and that he did not foresee further cancellation of any major service in this fiscal year.  Congress is still in the process of deciding how much money the bureau will receive for the current fiscal year, but Mr. Chapman, the former Secretary of State for the State of Washington, said he was hopeful of receiving about $155 million for the fiscal year 1982, after a cut of no more than 4 or 5 percent from the amount planned by the Carter Administration.  The trouble at the Census Bureau is indicative of how reductions aimed at social services have also impaired basic research that undergirds the economy and the array of local governments that provide basic services.  And scaling down of the bureau's functions has come at a time when there is an explosion in the use of demographics in private and public planning.  The attitude by users toward the delays in release of information was expressed at a meeting of census users in New York a few days ago. Doubts by Demographers  Peter K. Francese, publisher of American Demographics magazine, told the audience that last year the Census Bureau conducted by far the best count of the population that had been made since it began its decennial enumerations in 1790.  But he then called attention to a schedule of information from the census to be released by the bureau over the next few months and said, ''If you believe any of these dates, I will introduce you personally to the tooth fairy.''  Most of the complaints of delay have come from commercial users. ''Ten years ago at this time, we had the age distribution by counties,'' Edward J. Spar, president of Marketing Statistics, which provides data and advice to business on market prospects, said in a telephone interview in his New York office. The bureau has released age breakdowns by states, but not by substate levels, which is important to a range of public and private planners.  ''I understand budget cuts, and I am not blaming the bureau,'' Mr. Spar said. ''I think it is a phenomenal organization.'' His opinion is shared by many users, but he added that for some marketing needs the delays had been ''calamitous.''  James A. Paris, of Urban Decisions, Inc. based in Los Angeles, said the delays were of ''very much'' concern to the company's clients across the nation, which include concerns such as MacDonald's, the American Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and supermarket chains. He said that in Orange County, Calif., for example, development companies were having to use information based on the 1970 Census even though there had been substantial population changes. Orange County has been one of the prime growth areas of the nation. Hopes on Data Release  A number of users interviewed agreed that when the information was finally released, barring further delays, it would not be so old as to be useless. Census data, they pointed out, provide a base for state, county, city and neighborhood information that can be updated for several years.  Much of the census data, of course, have been released, such as population totals by race down to the local levels. The greatest delay has come in providing information from the long census form, which went to one person in every six in the April 1980 count. It contains detailed information on such characteristics as income, education and employment. The results were first promised for April 1982.  But, because of the cutback in funds and bureaucratic difficulties, it was postponed to the fall of 1982 and later to the spring 1983. To make up for that delay, the bureau undertook a ''sample of the sample,'' a compilation of enough of the long forms to maintain statistical accuracy and thus fill the one-year gap caused by the delay. 'Sample of Sample' Delayed  The first results from the ''sample of the sample'' were scheduled for release at the end of this year, but were subsequently postponed for at least three months.  A number of planned releases have been canceled. One was a report of the census by Zip code. This information is so valuable to many commercial users that the largest companies involved set up a consortium, which is buying the bureau's computer tapes and compiling the information for its members.  At one point the bureau canceled plans to print census data by tracts, the small areas within counties and cities that the agency designates and uses for counting purposes. But it received so many complaints from users that it decided to print the reports after all.  The bureau, having weathered a proliferation of lawsuits charging it with undercounting minority groups and others, was without a director from January to September. Also a number of top career officials retired, some because they could receive more in retirement pay than in salary, another distortion of budget-cutting. Too Late for Survey  Mr. Chapman acknowledged that the bureau had been trimming for some time. Since 1976, when Congress called for a mid-decade census, it has not provided the funds needed for planning that survey, and now it is too late, Mr. Chapman said, even to do a sizable survey that would update the 1980 findings.  The concern now in the bureau and Congress, in view of deeper cuts projected by the Reagan Administration for future years, is holding on to present services and modernizing for the 1990 Census.  So outmoded is much of the equipment used by the bureau, that much of the 1980 tabulations were made by hand. Mr. Chapman said considerable savings could be made by greater use of computers.  But the prospect of deeper cuts for the next two fiscal years has caused officials in the bureau to envision once again armies of people seated at cardboard desks in drafty warehouses across the country marking off boxes; and that it will then take three years for the marks to find their way into census tables and to other armies of people in commerce and government demanding to know at once all there is to know about Americans and their habits. 
