19810504
WETUMKA, Ala.— The Alabama prison system, which was in such miserable condition that a Federal judge placed it in receivership not long ago, has made improvements in the last 18 months that some corrections experts say are remarkable and innovative.  Even so, critics of the state's correction system say that progress is inadequate and that recent state legislation is regressive and will eventually thwart even the best intentions of the still-young administration of Governor Fob James.  There are strong pressures on the administration to comply with the minimum standards imposed by Federal Appeals Court Judge Frank M. Johnson in 1976 when he was a district judge, and these pressures could result in several hundred state prisoners being released unless adequate facilities are provided for their confinement.  At present, the Federal Court's quota system prohibits overcrowding in the state's eight prisons. Therefore, some 1,400 of Alabama's 6,000 inmates are being confined in county jails under conditions that one attorney who has represented many prisoners described as ''defying imagination.''  Action on Aid by Legislature  To avoid an order to release some prisoners from Federal District Judge Robert Varner, who assumed the case from Judge Johnson, the state House of Representatives last week authorized the expenditure of $45 million for construction of at least two new prisons and renovations of others. The state's Senate is expected to also approve the measure, which was requested by the Governor. A low bid of $21.7 million was received for one prison April 24.  But longtime critics of the system, such as Ralph Knowles, a lawyer from Tuscaloosa who has been striving for prison improvements since before the court order, contend that $45 million ''is not nearly enough'' to finance sufficient changes required to achieve compliance.  And, he said, a recent state law barring an inmate from accumulating credit, or ''good-time'' to gain early parole, ''can only work to keep the prisons overcrowded and work against needed changes.''  While Mr. Knowles doubted that the Alabama system was in compliance with any of Judge Johnson's requirements, others insisted that in some areas the system was not only improved but had exceeded the standards established by the court. 'Remarkable Progress' Seen  For example, Dr. George Beto, who headed the Texas Department of Corrections from 1962 to 1972, and who is now a college professor and consultant, said that ''remarkable progress'' had been achieved in Alabama in the past 18 months.  Dr. Beto, who was assigned by Judge Johnson to monitor the Alabama system, said after a recent inspection that despite his usual ''cynicism, I was heartened by what I saw in Alabama.  ''I have difficulty in believing that so much progress could have been made in so short a time in any prison system.'' While many in leadership positions in state government praise Governor James for his commitment to an improved prison system, outsiders like Clyde Neville, a hospital administrator from Birmingham, is among those who credit the new Corrections Commissioner, Robert Britton, and Dr. Rex Rainer, the Governor's special assistant, for the improvements. Management Problems Addressed  ''They have addressed the problems of management,'' said Mr. Neville, whose company, Brookwood Health Services, designed a system to provide medical treatment for the inmate population across the state.  ''There was absolutely no management whatever,'' Mr. Neville said, ''and had not been for the better part of two decades.'' Those who see substantial progress in the prisons especially take note of the improvements in medical care, citing that where there were four ''doctors'' who could not speak English and had no medical certification, there are now five fulltime physicians working in the prisons and 38 other medical specialtists are provided on a fee basis. Where there were 27 medical employees, presently there are 137. Where medical service costs were expected to be $5.6 million last year, the private contract with Bookwood cost $4.6 million and is to provide full medical, dental and psychiatric treatment.  ''Other states are studying our system,'' Mr. Neville said, ''so in at least one area, Alabama has gone from one of the most awful to become a model.'' Changes in Guards and Food  Mr. Britton, who began his career as a corrections officer in the Texas system, and was a warden at Tucker Prison in Arkansas, has instituted other changes as well.  Every new corrections counselor, the Alabama euphemism for guard, is required to have a college degree and pass a demanding written examination. In the past six months 160 counselors have been hired and half of them have master's degrees, the commissioner said. While 31 percent of all employees in the corrections department are black, 42 percent of the new counselors are black.  Mr. Britton established training courses for all new personnel as well as food service training and daily in-service training for those already employed before he arrived. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
