19990104
 Our Hollowed Navy   By By James Webb, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 5, 1999  It has now been almost three weeks since the otherworldly spectacle of a House impeachment debate taking place at the same time the politically threatened president rained down missiles and bombs on Iraq. Few who follow national-defense issues could restrain their cynicism as a parade of heretofore antimilitary legislators praised the reliability of our military forces and attempted to shame the Republicans for voting to impeach a busy commander-in-chief. But memories are short in Washington. January brings forth the budget from the administration to Congress. And these same legislators are unlikely to be as supportive of our men and women in uniform when it comes to appropriating funds for military spending.  Over the weekend the president offered up a mildly surprising increase in defense spending. Estimates of its size vary, but it includes $3 billion in pay raises, as well as $2 billion for continued operations in Bosnia and about $7.5 billion to be divided among the military services for weapon systems and improvements in readiness. It remains to be seen how aggressively these modest proposals will be pursued in the face of other demands. But by pledging "the first long-term sustained increase in defense spending in a decade," the Clinton administration has opened the gate for counterproposals that may spur a much-needed debate regarding the force structure of the military and the uses to which it should be put.  An administration proposal that addresses pay, Bosnia and a few weapons systems is a small Band-Aid on a military that has been hemorrhaging for years. Recent military missions have been the result of political whimsy rather than of a clearly enunciated national strategy. Our military is becoming quite sophisticated in meeting lower-end threats such as those it encountered in Haiti, Somalia and Bosnia, and it has made impressive doctrinal strides in such areas as the use of force in coastal areas. But focusing on these scenarios in the absence of a clearly enunciated global strategy has put our overall force structure at greater risk.   
