20120517
CORRECTION APPENDED IT may be that the house of the future is an apartment -- at 420 square feet, a very small apartment -- in a century-old tenement building on Sullivan Street. Shiny and white, it has movable walls that allow it to morph from one room into six, as well as expandable furniture and filtered, or ''country,'' air, as the owner, Graham Hill, put it recently while showing off the apartment's convertible tricks like a modern-day Bernadette Castro, dressed neatly in a black merino wool polo shirt, black pants and black Vans.  This laboratory, as Mr. Hill calls it, for small-space, sustainable and -- it must be stressed -- high-end living is the first tangible product from his fledgling company, LifeEdited. It comes with an awkward manifesto that nonetheless manages to gather an armful of social and economic trends and philosophies, including happiness research, the booming field of collaborative consumption (which uses new technology to share resources like cars, toys and books, on the Zipcar model) and data on the proven efficiencies of cities.  This is a medley of new-old systems that will be familiar to habitu?of recent TED conferences, where Mr. Hill has been a featured speaker, and to frequenters of the self-help section of bookstores and even old-school urbanists and Buckminster Fuller fans.  ''Design your life to include more money, health and happiness with less stuff, space and energy,'' as the manifesto reads, is both a mouthful and a paradox for an enterprise that hopes to be in the business of selling, well, lots of stuff, in much the same way the come-ons of the latest miracle diet promise weight loss if you gorge on all your favorite foods.  Yet Mr. Hill, the 41-year-old founder of TreeHugger, a Web site that made environmentalism attractive and aspirational by promoting a global, modern vision of sustainable design (think architectural chicken coops, green roofs and ''ethical'' condoms), has shown that he can profit from his own very sincere idealism and good taste. After all, he sold the site in 2007 to Discovery Communications, the company that owns the Discovery Channel, for $10 million.  Mr. Hill, who is Canadian, is trained as an architect and a product designer. TreeHugger, which went live in 2004, was his second Internet venture. His first, a Web design company, was sold in 1998 for $10 million as well, clearly his lucky number.  ''Graham is a rare breed, a pragmatic idealist,'' said his friend Nick Denton, founder of Gawker media. It was Mr. Denton who offered up Gawker's blogging platform as a template for organizing TreeHugger in its infancy. In return, Mr. Hill gave him a piece of the business.  ''He's shied away from tokenism and from empty idealism,'' Mr. Denton added. ''I think it's kind of cool for Graham to come up with a sustainable way of living in cities instead of showing million-dollar solar panels on houses in the Napa Valley, which is not the way most people live.''  ''It's always been about bobos in paradise, hasn't it?'' he continued, referring to the TreeHugger demographic, now primed to be customers for LifeEdited. ''Those wealthy urban types yearning to get in touch with themselves and the planet, and who are actually rather more effective than their hippie ancestors. I always liked the name TreeHugger, which was like taking a word like 'queer' that's been used as an insult and reclaiming it. It's postmodern-ironic, but not so ironic as to be devoid of principle.''  Sort of like Mr. Hill, whom Mr. Denton described as ''this Maui-New York surfing-TED person spewing carbon into the environment, even though he pays for it,'' referring to the way Mr. Hill mitigates the impact of his constant air travel by buying carbon offsets. ''I always joke that my footprint is lighter than his, because the only place I travel is from my apartment to my office.''  Indeed, the kite-surfing, skateboarding Mr. Hill has been mostly camping for the last decade, running his business out of a series of hotel rooms and small apartments in cities like Buenos Aires, Bangkok and Barcelona, Spain, to name just a few, as well as from a trailer on the Baja, a garage in Maui and even a bunk on Plastiki, the boat-mission made from 12,500 plastic bottles and captained by David de Rothschild, the banking-heir environmentalist.  It was these experiences, Mr. Hill will tell you, which required culling his stuff to fit into one small rolling suitcase, that made him seize on the notion of ''small'' as a business plan.  ''Small is sexy,'' he says in his six-minute TED talk. A YouTube hit, with 1.3 million views as of this week, it also includes these aphorisms: ''Transfer ownership to access,'' ''Own as little as possible so you don't have to store too much'' and ''Editing is the skill of this century: editing space, media consumption, friends.''  Mr. Hill is certainly not the first to trumpet the benefits of a pared-down life. There's a straight line from Buckminster Fuller to Sarah Susanka, the architect and author of ''The Not So Big House,'' published in 1998 at the height of the country's McMansion expansion, and to the Tiny House folks, the D.I.Y. builders of microhouses. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > Correction: May 24, 2012, Thursday This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about LifeEdited, a company that promotes living in small spaces, misidentified the nationality of Catalin Sandu, an architecture student hired by the company to design an apartment. He is Romanian, not Hungarian. The article also misidentified the location of Guerin Glass, an architecture firm working with LifeEdited. It is in Brooklyn, not Manhattan. And the article referred incorrectly to the Murphy bed and expandable table in the apartment of Graham Hill, LifeEdited's founder. The bed was designed by a company called CLEI, and the table by Ozzio; neither was designed by Resource Furniture, which is, in fact, the distributor for both.   
