19810330
IN the tax-exempt bond market these days, there's a new set of speculative players who, strange as it may seem, are trading taxable securities. ''It's a chance to roll the dice with a limited amount of money while trying to predict the future trend of interest rates,'' one broker observed.  The taxable vehicle is a warrant that gives holders the right to buy municipal bonds. The warrant owner is betting, in effect, that long-term interest rates will drop, said David Van Vort, fixed income manager at John Muir & Company. A decline in rates would tend to raise the price of the bonds - and the warrants. On Wall Street, that spells leverage.  Meanwhile, the warrant holder stands a considerable risk that interest rates will rise instead and that when his warrants eventually expire they could still be worthless.  In January the Municipal Assistance Corporation issued $100 million of tax-free bonds bearing an interest coupon of 10 5/8 percent and maturing in 2008. M.A.C. is the state agency set up in 1975 to sell bonds to aid financially beleaguered New York City.  What makes the January M.A.C. issue remarkable is that it constitutes the first tax-exempt bond carrying warrants. Attached to each $5,000 bond is a warrant exercisable until Jan. 18, 1983, allowing holders to buy at par, or 100, a like amount of 10 5/8 percent bonds due in 2007.  Currently three different kinds of paper - the detached warrant, the stripped bond and the bond with warrants still attached - are being traded as parts of the original offering.  Late last week the detached warrant was quoted at a dollar price basis of about $7. That translates into $70 per $1,000 face value of bonds, or $350 as the price for one warrant to buy a $5,000 bond, the minimum M.A.C. unit.  In terms of leverage, Mr. Van Vort explained, the warrant owner with an investment of, say, $3,500 at recent market prices has potential control over $50,000 face value of bonds.  Meanwhile, the bonds without warrants were of-fered late last week at a dollar price of $97, or $4,850 for each $5,000 bond. The yield to maturity was 10.97 percent. The third kind of paper, consisting of the original bond with the warrant still attached, was selling at a dollar price of $104, which works out to $5,200 a unit.  Leon J. Karvelis Jr., who heads fixed-income research at Merrill Lynch, provided a hypothetical example of how the warrant owner might benefit in the event of declining rates and simultaneously rising bond prices.  ''If yields on M.A.C. bonds slipped to 9 percent by January 1983,'' he said, ''the holder of the warrant would be able to purchase at par a bond with a 10 5/8 coupon, which makes for an attractive proposition.''  As a practical matter, the warrant speculator might be more interested in seeing the price of the warrants go up, which would allow him to sell at a profit, than in plunking down money for a new M.A.C. bond.  The warrants, unlike the bonds, bear no interest. Furthermore, any profit made on swapping warrants before the exercise date in early 1983 would be subject to a capital gains tax.  Mr. Karvelis estimated that 80 percent of the warrants have been detached from the bonds so far, meaning that 16,000 warrants, along with $80 million of bonds at face value, are now trading separately.  Meanwhile, the 20 percent of original buyers who hold the bond with the warrant still attached can compliment themselves at this time on a ''paper profit'' of about $200 for each $5,000 bond.  Investors must realize that the price of the warrant is determined not only by the price of the underlying bond but also by the length of time remaining until the warrants expire. In a sense, these warrants are comparable, in the equity-oriented market, to call options that give their owners the right to buy an underlying stock at a set price within a specific period.  ''Therefore, it is evident that, with the bonds selling below the exercise price of the warrants,'' Mr. Karvelis explained, ''the warrants have no inherent value and the current price is solely a function of the time remaining until expiration, along with investor expectations of the future course of tax-exempt interest rates during the period.''  M.A.C.'s intention in issuing the new bonds was to lower its interest costs and, at the same time, to create a new wrinkle to facilitate the bond sale.  Merrill Lynch analysts calculated that M.A.C. would pay out $234.8 million in interest over the life of the existing bonds. It is estimated that, had M.A.C. sold straight bonds instead, the coupon would have been 11 1/8 percent, meaning $245.9 million in total interest costs.  It remains to be seen whether warrant holders will finish with profits or losses. ''The possibilities are intriguing to the speculator,'' Mr. Karvelis said, ''but the caveats should not be ignored by the more traditional, security-conscious municipal investor.'' 
