19811104
IT takes a special talent to be a disgrace to boxing, and it is utterly inconceivable that such a man could wind up in a hero's grave in Arlington National Cemetery, but Lew Jenkins was equal to both challenges.  When he was lightweight champion of the world, and Red Cochrane, the welterweight champion, knocked him down five times in a non-title fight in Madison Square Garden, the press declared that he was a disgrace to himself, to the title he held and to the whole fight game. Lew died in California the other day at the age of 64, and day after tomorrow he will be buried, along with the Silver Star he won in Korea, across the Potomac from Washington in the same ground that holds Presidents John F. Kennedy and William H. Taft.  ''He is a great combat soldier,'' said Maj. Gen. Robert N. Young, who commanded the Second Infantry Division in Korea. ''He's famous up and down the front.''  He was a great fist fighter and a greater roisterer, famous up and down Broadway and in bars and jails all over the country. ''I come from a poor, ridiculous family,'' Lew said, and his past was written in his face, gaunt and bony, sad, sunken eyes and a wild bush of red hair.  When he was a champion and making big money, he threw it all away because wealth and fame and success were never meant for him. Only in war, surrounded by death, did he find a meaning in life. Those who put him away as a disgrace didn't know about this.  They didn't know that he had trained for the Cochrane fight in a New Jersey nightclub, drinking with the band. Not long before the fight date, he left the club about 3 A.M. and got on his motorcycle to find an all-night spot. Dead drunk, he crashed into a traffic circle and woke up in a hospital with his neck, back and arms taped. He had them carry him back to training camp at Pompton Lakes where he stripped off the tape and tried to train, but he had three broken vertebrae in his neck.  In the fight mob, when they talk of great fighters who were also great carousers, they always give top rank to Harry Greb, the tigerish middleweight champion whose name used to send heavyweights into hiding.  ''People who knew Greb,'' Lew said, ''say he was a junior compared to me.'' He was born Elmer Verlin Jenkins in Milburn, Tex., Dec. 4, 1916. One of seven brothers and sisters, he worked with his family as itinerant cotton pickers while the father tried and failed at assorted business ventures. He began fighting in the streets of Sweetwater, Tex., took a job boxing all comers in a carnival and eventually bummed into Phoenix, Ariz., because Jimmy Braddock, the heavyweight champion, was boxing a sparring partner there and he had never seen a champion. Lew landed a four-round bout on the card, won, and collected $5.  In 1936 he enlisted in the cavalry, where he won the welterweight championship of Fort Bliss. It was 1939 when he and his first wife, Katie, showed up in New York.  A scrawny stack of bones at 129 pounds, he didn't look like much but after seven fights in small clubs around town he had everybody talking about the way he could punch. Without telling Hymie Caplan, who had become his manager, he signed for a match with Billy Marquart, a dangerous puncher. Caplan screamed bloody murder, but Jenkins belted Marquart out in three.  Several months later he fought the skillful Tippy Larkin in Madison Square Garden. Lew caught Larkin by surprise by jabbing him, which was Tippy's game. Then Lew threw the straight right. As Larkin started to go, Lew hit him a hook, a right and another hook. Facedown under the ropes, Larkin didn't twitch.  ''That man,'' Lew said in his dressing room, ''was the most convinced knocked-out man I ever knocked out.''  That got him his shot at Lou Ambers, who had won the lightweight title from Henry Armstrong and whipped all the best little men around. Nobody expected Jenkins to win, but he dropped Ambers in the first minute, floored him again in the second and was hammering him fiercely at the bell. In the third, Ambers was down again, and when he got up Lew was all over him, putting him away swiftly.  From then on, Jenkins was never in shape for a fight. He was drunk for a rematch with Ambers but won by a knockout in the seventh round. There came a stretch when he lost nine times in a row and 11 of 13. Then in 1942 he enlisted in the Coast Guard.  His outfit put troops ashore on Sicily and at Salerno, behind the Japanese lines in Burma and in Normandy on D-Day. He didn't think that was fighting, putting infantrymen on the beaches and seeing them die there.  ''But Lew,'' a man said, ''guys in the Coast Guard got killed, too.'' ''Probably a boiler blew up or something,'' Lew said. He prayed for another war in which he could be a foot soldier. He got his war in Korea, his Silver Star and his place in Arlington. 
