19820704
THE trunk is back in its starting place. It stands more scratched and dented than it was four years ago in the middle of my living room. It was purchased to accompany my oldest daughter when she first left for college. Although it was larger than similar trunks and consequently more unwieldy, the salesman had convinced me it was a good buy.  Our first glimpse at its limitations occurred with the difficulty we encountered upon trying to take it up to her room. The best solution seemed to be to just leave it in the living room and let her pack there.  Its presence there soon started to annoy me and I tended to comment on it frequently. Well, it wouldn't be there for long, my daughter reminded me. Both she and it would soon be gone, and in all probability neither would be living in this house again. Oh, they'd be back as guests, yes, but not permanent residents.  She had already made her choice of career. College would help her obtain the job she wanted. Her salary would enable her to pay for an apartment of her own.  I reflected on how fortunate we were to have an offspring with such clear-cut goals. She had it all figured out. It seemed practical and not at all impossible. In 1978 none of us projected the state the economy would be in 1982.  Four years ago, her future and the future of her classmates looked hopeful. The unemployment rate was 6 percent, and a large percentage of college graduates, especially those with degrees in business, found jobs in their chosen fields. Student loans were readily available. It was in that promising climate that she left to pursue her goal.  She enjoyed college and did well. In her junior year, she found a part-time job related to her area of interest. Besides giving her the chance to learn more about the field, it would be impressive on her resume. She prepared well for the job interviews scheduled to take place in her senior year.  When the recruiters came, reality took hold. Businesses were hurting. They were hiring many fewer people this year. More students were applying. Many who would have gone on to graduate school were opting to work a while because of the uncertainty of the availability of student loans.  The interviews were grueling; the competition stiff. Letters of rejection became the order of the day. She was considered fortunate by her peers when at the end she was accepted in an executive training program that might start in November. The salary is not terribly enticing. An apartment of her own would take a sizable portion of it.  She is not unique. Her situation is typical of that of graduates throughout the country. At commencements, speakers referred frequently to the high cost of education. At the university she attended, costs almost doubled in her four years there.  One wonders where it will all end. The security once almost guaranteed by a college education is a thing of the past. Escalating costs and cutbacks in loan programs make obtaining that education an elusive goal for many. To what lengths must we go to educate our children?  The sight of the trunk in the living room now is sobering rather than annoying. Soon we will try to move it upstairs. Unless there is a drastic improvement in the economy, both my daughter and it will be staying for a while. --------------------------------------------------------------------- Barbara Gerbasi lives in New Hyde Park. 
