20040913
 Sony Group to Buy MGM for $3 Billion   By Merissa Marr, Dennis K. Berman and Peter Grant, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 14, 2004  Sony is on a fresh campaign to make its content and electronics- hardware businesses work together, something it has struggled to do since buying Columbia Pictures in the late 1980s. If completed, the deal will give Sony, which is already one of the biggest movie makers in the U.S., access to Hollywood's largest movie library, creating a pool of some 8,000 titles that Sony can tap to drive new technologies for entertainment, such as the next generation of DVD players. The companies estimate that they will together control about 50% of all the color movies that have been made. The agreement comes on the heels of a merger of the Sony Music business with rival BMG, which is also in part designed to aggregate content that can be used on next- generation Sony music devices and digital-music services.  By late last week, Time Warner thought it had a deal in place, but just minutes before an MGM board meeting last Thursday, the Sony consortium delivered a surprise bid of $12 per share in a fax to MGM's Los Angeles headquarters. Time Warner officially bowed out of the race yesterday, withdrawing its $11-a-share cash bid. Pivotal to Sony raising its bid by 75 cents a share were two new deals agreed to in recent days: a distribution deal with America's largest cable company, Comcast Corp., and an equity deal with Credit Suisse First Boston's private-equity arm, DLJ Merchant Banking Partners. Under the deal, Sony has agreed to license its movies to Comcast and develop cable networks together. That deal will remain in place regardless of whether the MGM deal is finalized.  MGM shares yesterday traded just below the Sony group's $12-a-share offer price, closing at $11.55 in 4 p.m. New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Time Warner shares slipped 0.4% to $16.45. Nevertheless, many analysts welcomed Time Warner's decision not to get further embroiled in a bidding war. Henry Ellenbogen, an analyst with T. Rowe Price Associates, said that Time Warner, more than anyone, knew the value of MGM, having previously distributed a significant part the MGM catalog. "They're a fully informed bidder. They have a good sense of what they could do with it," Mr. Ellenbogen said.   
