20060113
 Albert Togut: 'Second Banana' Of Bankruptcy; Lawyer Gets Called In to Help When Conflicts of Interest Loom; Networking With Grapefruits   By Koppel, Nathan, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 14, 2006  For the 6-foot-5 Mr. [ALBERT TOGUT], known as "Big Al," business has never been better. His 15-lawyer, New York-based firm, Togut, Segal & Segal LLP, steps into cases to handle assignments that would amount to a conflict of interest. For instance, in the Enron bankruptcy, lead counsel Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, brought in Mr. Togut to file suit against various banks, some of them clients of Weil Gotshal, accused of defrauding the former energy company. Last year, the firm's busiest ever, Togut Segal was retained to deal with conflicts in four of the biggest bankruptcy filings: Delphi Corp., Tower Automotive Inc., Winn- Dixie Stores Inc. and Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York.  Some bankruptcy experts question whether Mr. Togut has conflicts of his own. He is brought into cases on the assumption that, since he doesn't have a prior business relationship with creditors, he can be more zealous than the big law firms in negotiating with banks, insurance companies and others. Weil Gotshal, for example, has brought Mr. Togut into at least five cases where the firm had conflicts of interest. "I have no reason to doubt Al's integrity," says Edward Weisfelner, a longtime bankruptcy lawyer, "but the obvious question is whether he can really take a role antithetical to the interest of" the law firm that recommended him for the job?  Mr. Togut is typically called upon to handle discreet tasks. For example, in the bankruptcy proceedings of Allegiance Telecom Inc., which concluded in 2004, he looked into a complaint that Allegiance had improperly paid off a debt to a law firm, Kirkland & Ellis LLP, which wasn't only Allegiance's lead counsel, but also the very firm that had retained Mr. Togut for the job. Bankruptcy rules limit companies from paying certain debts before filing for bankruptcy, and Mr. Togut eventually forced Kirkland to cough up about $375,000, or 100%, of the debt payment. But there were evidently no hard feelings. Matthew Cantor, the lead Kirkland lawyer in the case, says Mr. Togut has a light touch that makes him successful at "cajoling people."   
