19861117
VIENNA, Nov. 13— Persecution of Jews in Iran has reached such intensity that hundreds of them have joined a much larger exodus of Moslem Iranians fleeing the country, according to refugee officials here.  While Jews have been leaving Iran since the popular upheaval that overthrew Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi in early 1979, the officials said the latest outflow was by far the biggest and most sustained since the time of the revolution.  Some refugees who have arrived in Vienna estimated that at any time 500 Jews were being detained in Iran, many accused of being Zionists. Others, they said, have been arrested for purposes of extortion. Other Groups Are Targets  At the same time, however, the refugees stressed that the travails of Iranian Jews were less severe than those of the Bahais, who are regarded as heretics by Moslems.  The increased emigration has reportedly brought 800 Jews to Israel in the last several months. No reliable figures are available, but Israeli officials in Jerusalem say they believe some 40,000 to 50,000 Jews remain in Iran.  However, some refugees here placed the remnant at 15,000 to 25,000, many of them elderly people fearful of uprooting themselves despite daily harassment and threats. These refugees asserted that thousands of Jews want to leave Iran. No Link to Iran Arms Deal  According to various accounts, Israeli intermediaries organized secret deliveries of American weapons to Iran as part of a White House effort to win influence in Teheran and secure the freedom of American hostages held by pro-Iranian terrorists in Lebanon.  But a senior Israeli official said the emigration was not linked to clandestine dealings with the Iranian authorities. ''This whole story,'' the official said, ''has nothing to do with all the reports regarding arms and hostages.''  Refugees said Islamic committees in Iran have seized control of Jewish schools and abolished the teaching of Hebrew, violently tried to force young Jews to convert to Islam, confiscated Jewish property, banished Jews from official positions and routinely arrested, beaten and tortured Jews and used repeated jailings to extort money from them.  ''The people who are leaving now had really, really tried to stay,'' said Bruce T. Leimsidor, director of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society in Vienna. He added that about two-thirds of the recent refugees had been tortured or otherwise physically mistreated in Iran. ''The people who are coming out now have really suffered,'' he said.  Some 60 to 70 Iranian Jews, most of them headed to join relatives in North America, arrive each week in Vienna. Others have made their way out of Iran to join relatives already settled in Israel.  The Jews, who spoke with the understanding that they would not be identified, stressed that they were but one strand in a vast flight of Iranians seeking to get out of the Islamic theocracy in Iran. There are an estimated 500,000 Iranian exiles in Western Europe and in Turkey, which has reportedly started to turn back some refugees caught slipping across its eastern frontier with Iran. 'It Is Not Only the Jews'  ''The people of Iran do not like the regime,'' said one middle-aged Jewish engineer who had fled to a neighboring country by camel with his wife and children. ''Everybody had been waiting for this regime to be overthrown, but it didn't happen. It is not only the Jews; it is all the Iranian people.''  The engineer, who had worked at the state-run oil refineries in Abadan, said he had been demoted and replaced by an incompetent but ideologically reliable Moslem. The engineer's wife, a teacher, said that at work her tea cup was marked with a cross so that her co-workers would not share it, and that she was banned from using the same wash basin as others.  The exodus of Iranian Jews began in the tumultuous weeks before Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini returned from exile in early 1979 to lead the revolution that was then sweeping away the Shah's regime. At the time, El Al Israel Airlines 747 jets ferried thousands of Jews, a number of them wealthy business people, to Israel from Teheran's Mehrabad Airport.  In his first public utterances, Ayatollah Khomeini promised that Iran's 75,000 Jews would be respected and protected. But, particularly after the seizure of the American Embassy in November, 1979, grass-roots Islamic committees and the associated Revolutionary Guards movement began harassing Jews in Teheran, Isfahan, Shiraz, Hamadan and Kashan. A Traumatic Event  Several refugees said a turning point came three years ago when 2,000 Jews, strolling in Teheran after Sabbath services, were rounded up by Revolutionary Guards, blindfolded and taken in buses at gunpoint to the notorious Evin Prison. After being terrorized and denounced as Zionists, they were released the next day.  A young man caught up in the roundup said he was later arrested with a number of his Jewish friends at a birthday party and condemned by an Islamic committee to 105 lashes with a steel cable. ''After 35 lashes I fainted,'' he said. ''When I opened my eyes I was in the hospital.'' 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
