19810221
One quick way to solve a social problem is to change the way it is measured until it shrinks into insignificance. That is what seems to be happening in the area of black teen-age unemployment. It has been said, by a recent contributor to our Op-Ed page among others, that the joblessness among minority youth isn't as bad as is generally supposed. How we wish that were so. But it isn't.  The Government's official unemployment rate for black 16- to 19-year-olds has been fluctuating for years between 35 and 40 percent. The Bureau of Labor Statistics arrives at that estimate by comparing the number of teen-agers who either hold or seek jobs with the number who can't find any. The comparable figure in 1980 for white teenagers was 15.5 percent.  The bureau's critics, like George Keller of the University of Maryland, contend that this method paints too bleak a picture. Because most teen-agers are in school, they say the fraction of the total age group's unemployed is actually much less alarming. Measuring out-of-work black teen-agers against the total population of young blacks, they argue, yields an unemployment rate of only 8.75 percent.  The exercise amounts to changing the rules of cal-culation simply to reach a better-sounding result. Would these critics now also count retired males or housewives to lower other unemployment statistics? If society seeks to provide jobs for those who want them, why count those who don't?  Even the critics' methods, however, highlight the basic problem with black youths: they are very much worse off than whites. The 8.75 percent unemployment rate in a total population of black youths compares with 5.27 percent for comparable whites. And when the proportion of employed teen-agers is measured against the total population group, whites show a ratio of 50 percent compared to a mere 23 percent for blacks.  To be sure, many more black youths are now attending school, and longer. But recent experiments have shown that where jobs are available the employment ratio of blacks is 58 percent, actually exceeding the normal ratio for whites.  So the main issue remains: how to give black youngsters an equal chance to lead productive lives and to find work. Unemployment rates measure how well the job is being done. However calculated, the answer is, always, poorly. Any other conclusion is a tragic miscalculation. 
