19810523
The new Secretary of Labor, Raymond Donovan, did indeed have a problem: Some women who knit ski-wear in their homes for a local concern in rural Vermont were outraged by a notice from the Carter Administration that their work violated the labor laws. They refused to give up their convenient jobs, insisting that Government had no right to bar them from working at home. They hoped the Reagan Administration, battling unnecessary regulation, would end the challenge to their livelihoods.  A clear solution also lay before the Secretary: Declare an exception to the labor laws for these workers, whose job conditions, except for location, complied with Federal law in all respects. The home labor in the Vermont hills was never meant to be a target of the Fair Labor Standards Act, which authorized regulations against work in the home in seven types of garment industries.  But Mr. Donovan took a more devious course. He used the Vermont case as a pretext to knock down the ban on home labor in all seven industries. Letting the exception overwhelm the rule, he issued a new regulation that glibly strikes against a half-century of labor history and experience. Although he may be challenged in court, the Secretary's decree could take effect as early as June 4. He should reconsider.  The reaction to his proposed rule has been overwhelmingly negative. Even the industries that the Secretary asserts he is liberating want to change his mind. Manufacturers think his regulation will confront them with a host of new competitors employing cheap labor under illegal conditions. Mr. Donovan contends that current regulations are not working well. And he's right. The prohibition against work in the home has not eliminated it. Thousands of low-skilled garment makers work in makeshift factories and in the kitchens and bedrooms of Hispanic barrios, black ghettos and Chinatowns in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and other cities.  These workers, mostly women and mostly illegal immigrants, are paid sub-minimum wages and are subjected to unhealthy, often dangerous environments. They don't complain, nor would they do so once their workplaces were legalized, for the simple reason that they fear expulsion from the United States.  The way to end illegal and inhuman conditions in the apparel business is not to alter the sensible standards proclaimed in the past but to enforce them flexibly and vigorously. That requires a serious inspection program and stiffer penalties than the absurdly low ones now levied. Mr. Donovan endorses tougher penalties, yet he plans sharp cuts in the staffs that enforce the law - notably in the cities with the greatest number of violations.  It is hard to see how the Secretary can contend that his approach serves to maintain the wages, health and safety of workers. More likely, he is responding ideologically to some highly practical problems. Mr. Donovan ought to back down and do some more homework. 
