19820731
DUBLIN, July 25— To most visitors, the charm of Ireland comes from its ties to the past. Donkeys pulling milk carts, hay piled by hand in the fields and shops filled with handcrafted goods - all these add up to an appealing quaintness.  As symbols of the country's considerable poverty, however, such tourist delights are not so pleasing to the Irish Government. Alongside the trappings of primitive enterprise, Ireland has succeeded - after a determined campaign of economic development - in juxtaposing some of the sleekest modern industrial facilities in the world.  Just outside this capital city, for example, a lush green field where horses from a riding school once cantered has been transformed into the Sandyford Industrial Estate, a home for companies with such names as Tramex, Office Electronics, Investors Diversified Services and Minerex. Familiar American Names  More than 800 foreign companies, many of them high-technology enterprises, have settled elsewhere in Ireland. Among them are 300 American companies with such familiar names as Apple Computer, Polaroid and Nike. Last year, the foreign businesses created 14,000 new jobs, about half of all new manufacturing jobs.  At the center of the drive to lure foreign companies to Ireland is the Industrial Development Authority, a Government-supported enterprise that has become one of the most lavish spenders in the increasingly competitive international race for jobs.  ''All countries pay substantial sums of money for industry, and if you want to stay in the game you have to pay,'' said Padraic A. White, managing director of the authority.  Recently, the development authority, with a high-powered operation that stands out in this slow-paced country, won its biggest victory when it persuaded the Hyster Company, the American forklift manufacturer, to place an automated handling systems plant here. Terms Apparently Generous  This achievement was particularly dramatic because it resulted from a bidding contest with Northern Ireland, where Hyster already has a successful plant. Although details of the deal are still secret, people close to the negotiations are convinced that Hyster received an unusually generous package in return for providing as many as 1,500 jobs after 10 years.  ''It was fair game,'' said Albert Reynolds, the Minister for Industry. ''This is a highly competitive business, and everyone is pitching for anything that's going in international investment.''  The development authority's offers vary, depending on how eagerly it wants a company and whether the company is willing to set up in the relatively underdeveloped western part of Ireland. In some cases, the authority will pay up to 60 percent of the cost of new plants. Further grants are provided for training costs. Export profits are free of tax until 1990, with the top rate thereafter at 10 percent.  The development authority contends that each job created costs it $9,800, not including corporate tax relief, and that the extra tax revenues generated by the wages repay the investment in two and a half to three years. The authority has a budget of $300 million, more than 650 employees and 18 offices outside Ireland, including eight in the United States. High Technology Sought  ''We're looking for high technology like robotics,'' said Ken Gunn, a senior official of the development authority. That means focusing on American companies. The companies can use Ireland as a European base because, under the Common Market's rules, no duty is incurred on exports within the 10-country group. The authority also helps about 95 percent of Ireland's domestic companies.  The emphasis on winning jobs by whatever means necessary stems not only from poverty in Ireland - where the standard of living is half the Common Market average - but also from patriotic fervor. Emigration helped reduce Ireland's population from 6.5 million in 1841 to 2.8 million in 1961 despite a high birth rate.  The authority's task has been to create enough employment so that the young people of Ireland will not have to leave the country to earn a living. In the 1970's, Ireland achieved net immigration, which has helped increase the population to 3.4 million.  At many factories, the workers include many, particularly whitecollar, employees who have lived abroad. At Mentec International Ltd., for example, John and Heather Maybury returned to Ireland from England to work in the plant established by Pfizer, the American drug maker. Economic Problems Persist  The authority's best efforts, however, have not kept Ireland from experiencing serious economic difficulties. Unemployment has risen to 12 percent, inflation is running at about 18 percent and the country has a national debt greater than Poland's on a per capita basis.  Much of this debt has been incurred on behalf of investment, which amounts to 30 percent of the gross national product. For decades after Irish independence was achieved in 1922, foreign investment was severely curtailed. Today, in its urgent need for investment, Ireland resembles a nation of the undeveloped third world rather than one in industrialized Europe.  The worldwide recession has made it tougher for the development authority to win new companies, but it has suffered relatively few failures. Its biggest occurred just a few months ago when a venture started by America's Fieldcrest Mills collapsed in bankruptcy. Officials of the authority tied the failure to Europe's recession and troubles with the product line.  Fieldcrest officials added that the rapid inflation rate in Ireland had increased the company's costs faster than prices could be raised on the Continent.  ''On average, certainly, productivity in Ireland is lower than in the United States or Europe, although it is now about 10 percent higher than in Britain,'' said Dan Flinter, senior economist at the authority. ''In the newer overseas companies, productivity tends to be substantially higher, and in a number of instances it approaches levels in the U.S.''  But wages in Ireland are only about $6 an hour for unskilled labor. All told, with the authority's various forms of assistance, the foreign enterprises have tended to do extremely well. The Commerce Department in Washington, for example, calculated that in the years 1974-79 the return on American manufacturing investment in Ireland was 29.4 percent, the highest in the world.  Illustrations: photos of Ireland 
