20021213
 Review / Books: The Prime Minister Was the Patient   By By Alistair Cooke, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 13, 2002  Several of [Winston Churchill]'s own cabinet members were secretly, guiltily inclined to accept this offer, which particularly appealed to Lord Halifax, the powerful foreign secretary, who had made Churchill prime minister in the sense of having declined Neville Chamberlain's offer of the premiership. Churchill abominated the thought of an armistice but -- for fear of having Halifax quit the cabinet and overthrow the government -- exercised a rare feat of restraint by cooling, in front of Halifax, his boiling contempt for [Hitler]'s offer of "your independence." ("We would become an immediate Nazi satellite," Churchill said, "a slave state.")  All these disasters, actual and prospective, were on Churchill's mind at noon of May 24, when there arrived at his bedside a doctor whom a friend of Churchill's had urged to serve as permanent medical watchdog of the outrageously overburdened prime minister. Churchill paid no attention to the man and went on reading a book. "After what seemed a long time," the doctor later recounted, "he . . . said impatiently: `I don't know why they're making such a fuss, there's nothing wrong with me.' " After another rude pause Churchill added: "I suffer from dyspepsia and this is the treatment." He threw back the bedclothes and started breathing heavily, "his big white belly moving up and down."  [Moran] kept on collecting a rag-bag of notes, jottings and memories on every sort of scrap paper and in 1966, the year after Churchill's death, published his 850-page memoir to the scandalized gasp of the medical establishment. This public protest did not last long. It had only the shrill voice of professional piety to sustain it. Soon a large reading public, half the medical profession and posterity itself had confirmed the unique value and, in the result, the brilliance of Lord Moran's memoir. A sizable part of it has just been published in a new edition called "Churchill at War," with an introduction by Lord Moran's son. Amazingly, there are no diary entries throughout the glory days -- the ordeal of the 1940 summer and the following Battle of Britain. At first no doubt the doctor, like many other people, did not take to Churchill's irascibility, temper tantrums, ill manners and massive egotism. But he decided that the prime minister was too engaged with the enemy to be ill. He also came to marvel that the prime minister's 16-hour days and Lucullan indulgence of food and drink could not seriously impair a constitution whose stamina mystified his colleagues.   
