20031002
 Schick Puts a Nick in Gillette's Razor Cycle; Rival Premium Products Could Mean Less Time, and Profit, Between Launches   By Forelle, Charles, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 3, 2003  Analysts say the new competition from [Schick] could throw a wrench into that plan. Bill Pecoriello, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, argues that Gillette will need to speed up its product launches and trim its cycle times now that premium-priced Schick razors are appearing on shelves. Gillette, he says, can't risk having older razors on the market for too long. This autumn marks the first time in recent memory that Schick has the newest high-end razors in both the men's and women's categories. "I think that the game has changed," Mr. Pecoriello says. He rates Gillette stock "underweight," his firm's equivalent of sell.  Gillette has trounced Schick before. Schick's Protector, launched in 1997 ahead of Mach3 has been discontinued in the U.S. Tracer, its answer to Gillette's Sensor, has all but disappeared. But Gillette shares have gone nowhere in a rising stock market since Intuition was launched, while Energizer's shares have gained 35%. Gillette trimmed its earnings expectations for this year and next because of the Schick products. It has also filed a lawsuit alleging that Quattro violates a patent that Gillette received in 2001. Schick says Quattro doesn't infringe the patent.  Schick's awakening began in 2000, after Pfizer Inc. took over Warner-Lambert Co., then Schick's owner, and dispatched two Warner- Lambert executives, Joe Lynch and Al Robertson, to the blade company. Mr. Lynch, now Schick's president, said he arrived to find a company with "world class" capabilities but little direction. It lagged sorely in high-end replaceable razors and had missed two opportunities to capitalize on Gillette's delays in releasing women's razors -- a two- year gap between Sensor and Sensor for Women, and a three-year gap between Mach3 and Venus. And capital spending under Warner-Lambert had been tight.   
