19820701
BEIRUT, Lebanon, June 30— Palestinian leaders and Lebanese officials made some progress today in negotiations over how and when the fighters of the Palestine Liberation Organization should leave Lebanon. One remaining problem appears to be that no Arab country is ready to accept them all.  Although the Palestinians have affirmed their willingness to negotiate an ''honorable'' exit from their stronghold in west Beirut and a neutralization of their armed presence, the talks have bogged down.  ''The P.L.O. leadership does not want to remain in Beirut,'' said Saeb Salam, a former Lebanese Prime Minister, who has been an intermediary between Yasir Arafat, the P.L.O. leader, and Philip C. Habib, the special American envoy. ''The P.L.O. leadership and the Lebanese Government agree that some of the fighters should leave, but it must be done with honor and cannot be accomplished overnight.''  Despite the pessimistic assessment of some of those involved in the talks, Mr. Habib said after a meeting with Prime Minister Shafik al-Wazzan of Lebanon, ''We are working on finishing up our task.'' Mr. Wazzan added: ''There is a better situation than yesterday. Things are slowly becoming clearer.''  (In Jerusalem, Government sources said Israel had given Mr. Habib and the Lebanese more time to arrange the Palestinian evacuation from west Beirut. Page A6.)  Mr. Arafat himself has said nothing publicly about the P.L.O.'s leaving or even reorganizing its presence in Lebanon. If the talks fail, he can be expected to disavow them; if they succeed he can take the credit.  But one Palestinian official said: ''Even if the talks succeed, and that is a big if, who is going to be the P.L.O. leader who orders fighters to leave their homes and pick up their families and go from Lebanon? Who is going to be the one to go down in history as ordering the withdrawal?''  Against the background of the current negotiations, Israeli planes were reported to have dropped flares today over the Palestinian refugee camps on the southeast outskirts of Beirut.  Sources involved in the negotiations say little real headway is being made for several reasons relating both to substance and to the style of the parties involved.  First, the issues are complex. What is essentially being discussed is how to dismantle the state within a state that the P.L.O. has developed inside Lebanon since 1969, and how to do this in a way that will allow for a continuing Palestinian presence under Lebanese control.  Second, the Palestinians are trying to bargain to the end, never conceding any point until they have no choice. Third, they are taking advantage of the fact that Prime Minister Wazzan, is not a strong politician and is susceptible to pressure from the Palestinians' Lebanese Moslem allies.  Finally, even if an agreement could be worked out, no Arab country has volunteered to take all the Palestinian guerrillas. Syrian Disavowal Is Seen  The most likely destination would have been Syria, where the P.L.O. maintains its formal headquarters and the seat of the Palestine National Council, its governing body. But Syria appears to have abandoned the Palestinians in their fight against the Israelis.  Mr. Arafat told a friend on Tuesday, ''I would rather die in Beirut than go to Syria.'' Another Palestinian official said: ''There is no place we really want to go. Can you imagine an independent P.L.O. in Cairo? Baghdad? Libya? Saudi Arabia? Never.'' Nonetheless, negotiations continued. Prime Minister Wazzan conferred with Mr. Habib at the presidential palace in Baabda, a southeastern suburb of Beirut, while Mr. Arafat's negotiator, Hani al-Hassan, traveled between the offices of Mr. Salam and Mr. Wazzan conveying the latest Palestinian position. 3-Mile Israeli Pullback Sought  Lebanese Government sources said progress was made on the Palestinian demand that no specific actions be carried out until the Israelis withdrew three miles from the Beirut area. The Israelis are said to have indicated a willingness to withdraw as soon as the Palestinians begin pulling out of west Beirut.  Another point of progress is understood to be over the question of what arms the Palestinian guerrillas can take with them on leaving Lebanon. On Tuesday, the Israelis said they would allow them to go with their light weapons. Sources involved in the negotiations now say that there are indications the Palestinians may be allowed to take heavy weapons, giving the appearance of an army redeploying rather than surrendering. 
