19810603
Q. You always recommend in recipes for fish stock using fish heads with gills removed. I am a fisherman and I have made the stock with gills intact, and the flavor is quite acceptable. Why do you remove them?  A. Because most home cooks may not, as you do, have access to fish that is only minutes or an hour or so from the water. When a fish head stands, the gills are the first to take on an off flavor. That is because of the accumulation of blood in the gills. If your fish are extremely fresh, you need not remove the gills.  Q. On a recent occasion, I found myself out of white wine but with an ample supply of white vermouth. When a recipe calls for a cup or less of dry white wine, is it generally satisfactory to substitute the same quantity of dry white vermouth?  A. We have often substituted white vermouth for white wine. I would say that the one may be substituted for the other in most cases. If you have a recipe that calls for a strong reduction of the white wine, you may not want to substitute, however. The herb flavor of the vermouth will become more concentrated as it cooks down.  Q. I have recently been sent a package of candied violets. I am curious to know how they are candied and precisely what ese I can put them to. Can you tell me?  A. Candied violets are prepared in many ways. The simplest is to dip them into beaten egg whites and then into very fine granulated sugar. You can also dip them into a syrup that has been cooked until it spins a thread, then coat it in granulated sugar.  I suspect that this simpler method, done on a large scale, is more like the commercial method. The syrup and sugar into which they are dipped or with which the violets are coated are generally tinted a purple or violet color to enhance the presentation.  Candied violets are used in my home to decorate custard desserts, such as an English custard, white and yellow ice creams, yellow puddings and so on. They are, as I have stated often, my favorite conceit where dessert garnishes are concerned.  FROM OUR READERS: We have received numerous inquiries over the years as to whether the stamens of ordinary, garden-variety crocuses in this country could be used to make saffron, the most expensive spice in the world. I recently stated that I ''doubted that yellow crocus stamens would be satisfactory in cooking as a replacement for saffron crocus stamens.''  This elicited the most lucid response I have ever read on the subject. The writer is Paul A. Cox, a doctoral candidate in biology at Harvard University's Biological Laboratories: ''Stamens, of course, are the male organs of a flower; they produce pollen which can fertilize other flowers and can also afflict sufferers of hay fever.  The saffron of commerce comes from the stigmas of Crocus sativus. Stigmas are part of the female organs of flowers and are the surface upon which pollen grains germinate prior to fertilization of the ovules. The stigmas are dried and allowed to ferment slightly. It is unlikely that a home gardener could produce very much saffron without a good deal of space or ingenuity since each saffron flower produces only three stigmas; more than 12,000 stigmas are required to produce a single ounce of saffron. This is one of the reasons why saffron is one of the most expensive spices in the world.''  Readers are invited to send questions about food and cooking techniques to Craig Claiborne, Food Editor, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Unfortunately, unpublished questions cannot be answered individually.  Illustrations: Cartoon of a cat 
