19820530
DOVER TOWNSHIP THIS Ocean County community is the scene of a controversy, now at a standstill, pitting residents and town officials against an out-oftown contractor that wants to mine gravel.  At issue is a recent bid by the Bil-Jim Construction Company of Jackson Township to mine gravel in a predominantly residential area along Old Freehold Road. The privately owned land, which the company would lease, is undeveloped and surrounded by private homes on wide acreage and unused farmland.  Homeowners contend that a gravel pit would destroy a wide expanse of old oak trees, adversely alter wildlife ecosystems, severely disturb virgin topsoil and be a safety hazard.  More important, they contend, a new excavation might encourage other profit-minded landlords nearby to lease their undeveloped properties for gravel mining.  The main adversary of the plan, the Pleasant Plains Area Homeowners and Business Owners Association, also asserts that a gravel pit will add to the half-dozen scarred sites in the township where mines have been worked and then abandoned.  The 300-member association maintains that irrevocable damage already has been inflicted in such spots and has vowed to avert future damage by means of political pressure and continued communication with the Dover Township Council.  Earlier this year, the local Board of Adjustment voted to allow a limited mining operation in the residentially zoned Old Freehold Road area, provided that Bil-Jim adhered to local and state mining regulations and cleanup requirements.  But before mining can start, the Township Council must issue a permit. This seems unlikely since, according to Mayor Joseph Vicari, the Council majority, including himself, opposes any new mining.  ''For the last 30 years, this town has been raped when it comes to mining around here,'' Mr. Vicari said. ''We have no intention of issuing a new license for mining.''  Township administrators add that Bil-Jim Construction had not yet applied for a mining permit, nor is it expected to because of adverse public reaction and publicity.  Local officials and homeowners say the issue is better forgotten. They agree that one consolation is the realization that the community and its elected officials can work together easily to block threats to the environment.  ''We just didn't want another crater on the moon around here that we can't fill up,'' said Dennis J. Cleary, who heads the Pleasant Plains association. He said the group was formed four years ago to protest a similar gravel excavation, also under the operation of Bil-Jim Construction, in an area bordering New Hampshire Avenue.  Mr. Cleary finds that the township's cooperation stems in part from his group's being supported at the polls by residents whose votes go primarily to antimining candidates, regardless of political party.  Mr. Vicari, a newly elected Republican Freeholder, said that the most recent excavations had complied with local and state regulations, including land restoration at the completion of mining.  He added, however, that this was not the case before regulations of the state's Department of Environmental Protection went into effect. ''The regulations are very firm, and they avoid problems in the future,'' said Thomas Shea, chief of the Mine Safety Section of the Division of Workplace Standards, an arm of the state's Department of Labor.  State inspectors, Mr. Shea said, make spot checks of proposed sites and offer safety recommendations. ''For example, we're concerned with putting up fences around sites,'' he explained. ''Fences don't mean much to adults, but they keep little kids out of there.''  Randy Johnson, a spokesman for Bil-Jim Construction, avoided comment on whether the company plans to press its bid to seek a mining license in Dover Township.  The company, he said, deals mainly in street paving and driveway construction, and has done work for the municipality in the past. ''All I can say is that we have complied fully with municipal ordinances,'' Mr. Johnson said. Residents and some town officials assert that there would be no shortage of gravel for road work in the county if the Bil-Jim project was abandoned.  ''The word mining has a lot of negative connotations,'' said George Clayton, the township's Superintendent of Public Works. ''You think of mining, and you imagine men in hard hats riding elevators down through tunnels hundreds of feet deep. That's just not the case here.''  Mr. Clayton went on to explain that recent mining involved light machinery that leveled high pockets of earth rich in gravel. ''Some people expected existing gravel pits to be turned back into golf courses overnight,'' he said. ''It just doesn't happen that way.''  Some township officials say privately that the gravel pits are eyesores because they are undeveloped. A K-Mart shopping center on Route 37 in Toms River is an example, they emphasize. The development rests on land that was formerly an extensive pit.  ''Every town wants gravel,'' Mr. Johnson said, ''but nobody wants it mined in his own neighborhood.'' Albert J. Parisi  Illustrations: map of Dover Township 
