19851105
 IRA Violence Continues Despite Anglo-Irish Talks   By By William McGurn, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 6, 1985  On the other side of town in predominantly Roman Catholic West Belfast, the ghettos with their high rates of unemployment are the breeding grounds for paramilitary groups of both persuasions. This is the war-ravaged Belfast more familiar to the world's television viewers. At its heart, at 51 Falls Road, stands the ramshackle Northern headquarters of Provisional Sinn Fein, its front blocked by large boulders and its outer wall covered by a colorful mural of a worker reading the movement's weekly paper, Republican News.  Provisional Sinn Fein (Irish Gaelic for "ourselves alone") is a troubling group to visit on the eve of an expected Anglo-Irish initiative that, for the first time, will recognize some Dublin role in Northern affairs. Though Sinn Fein -- the political wing of the outlawed Provisional Irish Republican Army -- is Ireland's only all-island political party, it opposes any peaceful progress. This was roundly reaffirmed at this week's party conference in Dublin, where it displayed its commitment to the violent overthrow of both the "collaborationist" government in Dublin and the "imperialist" one in London. Despite this, and despite Sinn Fein's rejection by even the North's Roman Catholic minority, a new generation of bright, charming tacticians has succeeded in portraying Sinn Fein as champion of the oppressed minority in the unwavering pursuit of a united 32-county socialist republic.  Sinn Fein has been involved in the political process for only three years, beginning in 1982 with the local assembly elections. This was in the wake of the brilliant campaign the year before that saw imprisoned IRA member Bobby Sands elected to Westminster on an anti-prison ticket before he died on a hunger strike. One of the architects of Sinn Fein's movement into the political arena -- under the slogan "A ballot in one hand and an Armalite {machine gun} in the other" -- Mr. Adams denies the charges that he is also the IRA's chief of staff. Elected a member of the British Parliament and Northern Assembly, in accordance with Sinn Fein policy he has not taken his seat in either.   
