19860902
 Mrs. Aquino and the Troops   By By Thomas A. Marks, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 3, 1986  In contrast to the military's relative unity, the government is rife with factionalism. Made up of disparate elements of the left and right united only in their opposition to former President Ferdinand Marcos, the government began to lose cohesiveness once Mrs. Aquino came to power. Mr. Marcos's repression of legitimate dissent under the rubric of "fighting the Communists" has left a marked antipathy toward the military and a naive willingness to support the extreme left because of its anti-Marcos stance. Among some members of the Aquino government, the line between sympathy and advocacy has grown increasingly blurred.  Little should be expected from the CPP. Captured CPP documents give no indication that the insurgents are interested in compromising their longstanding bid for political power through a "people's war." Quite the contrary. Instructions to CPP cadres state that nothing substantive will be agreed upon until certain conditions are met. These include the ouster of Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile and Gen. Ramos, withdrawal of all military and paramilitary personnel from the countryside, removal of the U.S. military bases, and agrarian reform.  Meanwhile, the CPP has talked a great deal about negotiating with the government. But while the CPP stalls endlessly with procedural and other objections, it has pressed hard to improve its political and military positions. The CPP's military arm, the New People's Army, and its political arm, the National Democratic Front, have used the openness of the political system and their greater freedom of movement to reposition their forces and press their propaganda. Reports from throughout the country speak of increased CPP political activity in the villages and among urban groups, such as laborers and students. And although the total number of military incidents is down slightly since the February revolt, bloody encounters and assassinations continue.   
