19820423
With guitar, saxophone, tambourines and drums providing a compelling beat, the singers belted out their message: ''If you love your baby, if you love your friend, you know this arms race has got to end.''  The singing at the New School in Greenwich Village Monday night was one of a host of activities in the metropolitan area connected with Ground Zero Week, a nationally organized effort to educate the public about the nuclear arms peril.  While the turnout on many college campuses for lectures and films was only modest, off-campus activities drew slightly larger and older crowds. The artistic offerings ranged from spectral modern dance pieces to a ''Die-In'' staged yesterday afternoon by 30 Columbia University students on the Morningside Heights campus.  The students, their faces painted white, lay on the ground as if struck by a nuclear bomb while a band played funereal music. A campus chaplain, the Rev. Paul Dinter, read a prose piece about mankind's demise. About 400 onlookers were drawn to the bizarre scene. Project Began 10 Months Ago  Ground Zero, a nonpartisan educational project was started 10 months ago by Roger C. Molander, a former National Security Council staff specialist on arms control. The project takes its name from the military term for the point on the ground immediately below a nuclear explosion.  The week provided ironic moments as politically active people who remembered their days of the Vietnam War protest listened to pleas for disarmament from former Defense Department and Central Intelligence Agency officials who had served under President Lyndon B. Johnson.  Whistles and cheers greeted Dr. Herbert Scoville as the elderly man made his way slowly to the speakers' podium at the New School to face about 550 local residents. ''I don't usually get applause for having been deputy director of the C.I.A.,'' he said, smiling, ''certainly not from an audience like this.''  Cyrus R. Vance, former Secretary of State, met a generally friendly audience of 300 people Wednesday night at the Ethical Culture Society on West 64th Street as he urged a resumption of disarmament negotiations with the Soviet Union. But midway through the evening three hecklers screamed accusations about Mr. Vance's activities as Deputy Secretary of Defense under Robert S. McNamara during the Vietnam War.  ''This is preposterous,'' one heckler shouted. ''Now he says he's for peace?'' 'No Limited Nuclear War'  One man who screamed obscenities was evicted by members of the audience, which was uniform in its determination to hear Mr. Vance. The former Secretary said he would ''reject the concept that there is superiority on either side'' in nuclear weapons and that he believed ''there can be no limited nuclear war.''  The impetus for the educational week on many college campuses - where political activism of most kinds generally has been low - came from faculty members and administrators, and from community groups and religious organizations.  At Princeton University in New Jersey, three graduate students and a strong community movement set up a program of Ground Zero Week speeches and films.  ''Nationwide, I don't think students are a major part of the effort,'' said Rev. Robert Moore, coordinator of the Coalition for Nuclear Disarmament, the community group. ''It's much more church groups, religious groups and professional groups. The students these days, because of the economic situation, are a little more security conscious. They've got their nose to the grindstone so they'll get a good job.'' 100 Are Bused to Washington  Campus interest in the educational week was muted as well at New York University where a rally yesterday afternoon on Washington Square drew 100 people. Hunter College in Manhattan marked the week by busing 100 students and faculty members to Washington to express their concern about disarmament to legislators and to interview officials at the Pentagon and the State Department.  Physicians for Social Responsibility, a nonpartisan group, provided scores of speakers in the region to describe the medical effects of nuclear war and circulated a documentary film it produced called ''The Last Epidemic.''  Dr. William Greenberg returned to his alma mater, Queens College, on Tuesday to give a harrowing and exact description of how a nuclear bomb would kill human beings. About 100 of the campus's 11,000 daytime students attended the lecture. Many put their knuckles to their mouths in horror as Dr. Greenberg, a psychiatrist, read vignettes written by survivors of the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  Having produced the desired effect in his listeners, Dr. Greenberg then cautioned: ''This game is for keeps. We're not going to have a second planet to play with.'' British Film of 60's Shown  At Wesleyan University, in Middletown, Conn., 100 students attended a screening of ''The War Game,'' a British documentary of the 1960's depicting the effect of a nuclear attack on a British town.  Organizers of the educational week at Wesleyan communicated their message by drawing targets in chalk on campus walkways. Next to the marks were descriptions of the damage that would be inflicted at that point if a nuclear missile were to fall nearby. ''Seven miles from ground zero third degree burns,'' read one marker.  During one lecture David Vann, a junior history major, circulated petitions supporting a resolution calling for a freeze on nuclear arms, sponsored by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Mark O. Hatfield, Republican of Oregon.  Mr. Vann said he was not usually very active politically, but added: ''Right now I have the feeling that this is the issue of the moment. If we blow each other up, there won't be other problems to worry about.''  Illustrations: photo of display at Columbia U. 
