20060302
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Review / Film: Mos Def Is a Joy to Hear As Motor-Mouthed Witness In Funny, Moving '16 Blocks'; Willis, Veteran Director Donner Spike Usual Action Formula; 'Deep Sea': an IMAX High   By Morgenstern, Joe, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 3, 2006  MOS DEF ALSO APPEARS in "[Dave Chappelle]'s Block Party," which was directed by Michel Gondry and shot by Ellen Kuras. He's one of a number of stars who played at a free block party that Mr. Chappelle threw, like some hip hop Sol Hurok, in Brooklyn in 2004. The comedian has had his ups and downs recently, but the film is pure up, a wonderfully genial and inclusive record -- not that the music is devoid of anger or social protest -- of a day-long, freestyle show that includes Kanye West, Dead Prez, Erykah Badu, Jill Scott, The Roots, a reunion of The Fugees (with a killingly powerful version of "Killing Me Softly With His Song") and a marching band from Ohio, where Dave Chappelle lives. The impresario describes his block party's audience as "5,000 black people with 19 white people peppered into the crowd." It's a funny image, a light sprinkling of white pepper, but there are lots more than 19, and a grand time is had by all.  The words certainly flow fast and furious in "16 Blocks," but the great surprise is what Mos Def does with them. He gives [Eddie Bunker] a tinny voice that seems to be coming from a cheap AM radio, and a motormouth that, even at idle, can't be ignored. "I gotta be somewhere," Eddie keeps insisting. "I got somethin' to do." That something may be a pipe dream; he wants to open a specialty bakery, of all things. But Mos Def's performance is so urgent (and so nuanced -- this is not a rapper's random fling at acting) that Eddie becomes a hero of real stature, desperately searching for signs that his luck will change. At first [Jack Mosley] can't abide him. "Life's too long," the detective says laconically, "and guys like you make it longer." Guys like Eddie don't come along in movies often enough.   
