20050906
 Pernod Plays to Local Tastes; Acquisition of Allied Domecq Will Test Company's Strategy   By Ball, Deborah, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 7, 2005  For instance, when Pernod bought Martell and Chivas from Seagram Co. in 2001, the brands came with sales staff in China. Pernod quadrupled that staff to 300, which is now 95% Chinese. While Seagram had previously run global campaigns for the two brands, Pernod instead let local managers decide on promotions and marketing.  Elsewhere, sales of Havana Club, a Cuban rum Pernod acquired in 1993, rose 15% in the first half of the year in France because Pernod has a big sales force there. Similarly, Chivas, Jameson Irish whiskey and Havana Club have all had double-digit sales growth in Greece, thanks to the network of people selling ouzo. Pernod doesn't break down its exact sales figures for Greece and most other countries.  Despite the success of the Allied Domecq acquisition so far, the size could complicate this juggling act. Allied was about two-thirds the size of Pernod in terms of sales volume, and the purchase will give Pernod five new global liquor brands, including Ballantine's and Malibu, as well as two large Champagne brands. Furthermore, in the past several years, Allied centralized the management of its brands. It cut the number of ad agencies it employed to just one main agency from nearly 200. By contrast, Pernod uses a bevy of agencies around the world.  For instance, when Pernod bought Martell and Chivas from Seagram Co. in 2001, the brands came with sales staff in China. Pernod quadrupled that staff to 300, which is now 95% Chinese. While Seagram had previously run global campaigns for the two brands, Pernod instead let local managers decide on promotions and marketing.  Elsewhere, sales of Havana Club, a Cuban rum Pernod acquired in 1993, rose 15% in the first half of the year in France because Pernod has a big sales force there. Similarly, Chivas, Jameson Irish whiskey and Havana Club have all had double-digit sales growth in Greece, thanks to the network of people selling ouzo. Pernod doesn't break down its exact sales figures for Greece and most other countries.  Despite the success of the Allied Domecq acquisition so far, the size could complicate this juggling act. Allied was about two-thirds the size of Pernod in terms of sales volume, and the purchase will give Pernod five new global liquor brands, including Ballantine's and Malibu, as well as two large Champagne brands. Furthermore, in the past several years, Allied centralized the management of its brands. It cut the number of ad agencies it employed to just one main agency from nearly 200. By contrast, Pernod uses a bevy of agencies around the world.   
