19840517
It was exactly 100 years ago today - in the days when the streets of New York were filled with gas lamps and horse-drawn carriages - that a wealthy young woman named Elizabeth H. Cullum stood at the upper reaches of Central Park and unveiled the cornerstone for a structure that would change the direction of health care.  On that day Mrs. Cullum, a cousin of Mr. and Mrs. John Jacob Astor, dedicated the foundation for the New York Cancer Hospital, the forerunner of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and the first hospital in the country to be designed exclusively for the treatment and cure of cancer.  To celebrate that event, a United States postage stamp is being issued today to honor health research. And at the precise moment - 4 P.M. - that the old cornerstone was unveiled. the institution will conduct academic ceremonies for this year's graduate students.  ''A cancer hospital is one of the greatest needs of the day,'' said Dr. J. Marion Sims, a well-known gynecologist and one of the cancer hospital's most outspoken advocates a century ago. ''The subject is too large and its interest too great to be lodged in a pavilion subsidiary to any other hospital.'' Synonymous With Shame  When the foundation of the building was set 100 years ago, cancer was still a disease synonymous with shame, believed to be as contagious as syphilis. There was virtually no treatment available for patients except the most primitive surgery, and a diagnosis of cancer was considered the equivalent of death. The death of Ulysses S. Grant in 1885 helped publicize the disease and attract public interest to its cure.  The original New York Cancer Hospital was a building with four large towers. It was designed by Charles Coolidge Haight, a leading architect of the day, with the idea that patients should be housed in circular wards so that contaminated air could circulate more freely and dust could not get trapped in corners. The structure, which at one time was converted into a nursing home, still stands. Now abandoned, it is a city landmark at Central Park West and 106th street.  In 1916, the hospital's name was changed to the Memorial Hospital for the Treatment of Cancer and Allied Diseases, the first institution to use radiation in the treatment of cancer. In 1937, in large part because of a grant from the Rockefeller family, the hospital moved to its present site on the block between 67th and 68th Streets and between First and York Avenues. The Rockefellers are said to have first become involved in the hospital after a young girlfriend of John D. Rockefeller Jr., Elizabeth Dashiell, died of cancer at the age of 18 in 1891.  Over the years, the hospital, which changed its name officially to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in 1960, has evolved into one of the most prestigious medical institutions in the world,its history entwined with the very understanding of cancer itself. Chemotherapy Developed  It was there during World War II that some of the first experiments were performed using chemical warfare weapons to treat cancer in what has evolved into chemotherapy. It was there, too, that some of the more radical procedures in cancer surgery were tested.  Today, while cancer remains one of the most dreaded diseases, officials of the cancer center said scientists are working to understand the relation of cancer to the environment and the impact of viruses, chemicals and other cancer-causing agents on genes.  The officials estimate that 50 percent of all cancer patients who come to Memorial-Sloan Kettering for treatment can expect to go home and lead normal, productive lives with their illnesses either cured or under control. There were 13,000 such patients last year. But the officials say early diagnosis is the best weapon against cancer.  ''We're unlikely to find the magic bullet to prevent cancer,'' said Dr. Paul A. Marks, president of the center, in an interview. ''Cancer is most likely part of our living. We'll probably never eliminate cancer. But our increased understanding of it has already given us tools to intervene, and there is more hope for patients than ever before.''  photo of staff members at New York Cancer Hospital 
