20071205
 Pachyderm Patrols Fend Off Elephants Rioting in Sumatra; 'Flying Squad' Beats Back Herds That Kill People And Devastate Plantations   By Wright, Tom, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 6, 2007  Last month, PT Peputra Supra Jaya, a company that runs a 20,000-acre palm-oil plantation near [TESSO NILO], asked the local government to help after a herd of wild elephants began eating its crops. The cash- strapped government turned to the Flying Squad, which trucked in two male elephants -- Indro and Rahman -- from their base about two hours away. Indro derives from the Madagascan word for woodsman. Rahman is an Arabic name meaning compassionate. Scouting the palm-oil plantation in four-wheel-drive vehicles, the mahouts looked for signs of the wild elephants, such as footprints and broken foliage. Then, near dusk, a radio call came in from a plantation manager: Three elephants had just attacked a group of farmers before crashing back into the forest.  "By setting up plantations so near Tesso Nilo, companies have to anticipate elephants coming in," says Syamsuardi, who has run the Flying Squad for the WWF since it was created in 2004. In the wild, elephants can be among nature's fiercest creatures. African tuskers are able to crush lions and even rhinoceroses. Before gunpowder, they were often deployed by generals to destroy enemy infantry lines and to trample prisoners to death. In the third century B.C., Hannibal, Carthage's renowned military commander, famously drove African elephants across Spain and over the Alps to attack the Romans.  In Ulu Semong village, located in the western highlands of Lampung Province, the coffee farmers say they won't venture into their fields after the death of the girl and her mother this past summer. Darwin, a coffee trader who is head of the village, shows grisly photos of what he says are the victims' remains. Foraging elephants trampled the pair as they slept in a hut on the edge of a plantation. "I never saw elephants coming into human areas like this," he says.   
