20001109
 Internet Time: AOL, Time Warner Are Already Putting Operations Together --- Collaboration Is Watchword, And That Means Change For Some Division Chiefs --- Regulators Delay a Decision   By By Martin Peers and Julia Angwin, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 10, 2000  Even as AOL and Time Warner move rapidly to integrate, patterns are emerging. One involves the growing influence of AOL, and of Mr. [Robert Pittman] in particular. From magazines to movies, every unit of Time Warner is being pulled into the AOL way of doing things -- a collaborative, hands-on approach that is the polar opposite of how highly decentralized Time Warner does things. Mr. Pittman's is an "always-a-crisis, always-on" approach, says one Time Warner executive. "You have a meeting with Pittman -- `We have to get this done, let's move' -- that's how he manages people."  As they work together, Time Warner and AOL are learning they have to take care not to hurt each other's businesses. Shortly after the deal announcement, AOL programmers posted software on an affiliated AOL Web site that made it easy to illegally copy and share music. When he found out, Mr. [Richard Parsons] e-mailed Mr. Case that for a company committed to protecting intellectual property, "this seems to be moving in the wrong direction," according to a person familiar with the events. Mr. Case quickly agreed. Time Warner executives also contacted Mr. Pittman and Barry Schuler, AOL president of interactive services, who indicated AOL hadn't known the software was being posted. AOL took it off the site that day and denounced the program, known as Gnutella, as an unauthorized free-lance project.  While Mr. Pittman has left Time Warner division chiefs in place, it is clearly AOL executives who are moving into key corporate management posts, leaving some Time Warner veterans out in the cold. Time Warner lobbyist Timothy Boggs missed out on the top lobbying spot to AOL's George Vradenburg, and Time Warner's general counsel Christopher Bogart is weighing options both inside and outside the company after AOL general counsel Paul Cappuccio was named to that job in the combined company. Time Warner Digital Media Vice Chairman Olaf Olafsson is also considering leaving. And since Time Warner no longer needs a digital-media chief, Richard Bressler is being moved over to run the company's venture-capital fund, reporting to Mr. Case.   
