20000109
 The Clintons Shrug at Sex Trafficking   By By William J. Bennett and Charles W. Colson, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 10, 2000  Over the past few months the Clinton administration has lobbied for the United Nations to adopt a protocol that would lend legitimacy to prostitution and hard-core pornography. This effort has been spearheaded by the President's Interagency Council on Women, a group whose honorary chairman is none other than Hillary Rodham Clinton. Although the proposal has drawn opposition from across the political spectrum, the administration is forging ahead with its plans. Whether it succeeds in these morally indefensible ambitions will depend on a crucial U.N. vote scheduled for later this month.  Yet in Vienna a week from today -- when the U.N. Convention on Transnational Organized Crime votes on its protocol to combat international trafficking in women and children -- White House representatives will take the first step toward legitimizing the sexual-trafficking business. Negotiations on this Vienna Protocol have been going on for the past year and a half. Since December, however, the White House delegation has worked to narrow the definition of sexual trafficking, in a way that would allow certain prostitution rings to flourish. It has done so despite the objections of a majority of the G-77 countries and other developing nations, whose women are the principal victims of sex trafficking.  To secure its goal, the Clinton administration must effectively repeal an existing U.N. convention that strictly forbids prostitution and requires punishment of any person who "procures, entices or leads away, for the purposes of prostitution . . . even with the consent of that person." The Clinton group also believes that international actions against pornography rings should be restricted to pornographers who work without the "consent" of the women they use, thereby granting the international pornography "industry" the sort of legitimacy and legal status it has long sought.   
