19810930
In the frail ligh t of morning, a young man stood at the corner of Broad and Wal l Streets, in front of the Bankers Trust building and across from t he New York Stock Exchange, and preached in a sonorous voice, half s tatement, half harangue. It was 9 A.M. yesterday, and the market th e day before had back-flipped from intimations of disaster into one of its finest trading days this year; the Exchange would open in an hour.  ''Yesterday you saw the shadow of doom and disaster,'' cried the young man, a member of a charismatic sect. ''Yesterday you saw ruin and judgment. But nothing signifies except the word of the Lord. Nothing matters except the work of the Lord. The material possessions you crave are not real.''  Trinity Church sat at the end of the street like a Gothic blessing, but the crowds of secretaries and messengers and bankers and brokers passed the young man by. Just before 10 A.M., when the digital clocks on the floor of the Exchange began to blink wildly to indicate the beginning of another day's trading, he closed his mouth and went home.  Right pulpit, wrong message; that was what the young man had failed to see. There are streets in New York City that mean more than they say: Fifth Avenue, certainly, and perhaps Madison and Seventh, too. But none is quite like Wall Street, the guts of American business and finance, part granite, part ticker tape, flying the flags of the United States and of industry side by side.  Wall Street felt dreadful on Monday morning, with the markets in London and Tokyo plunging and a gangly pundit named Joseph Granville predicting a big crash. Wall Street felt wonderful Monday afternoon, with a smashing market close. And yesterday Wall Street, which is usually several degrees colder than Broadway because it never gets much sun, felt warm all over about its fortitude.  ''It's quiet now,'' said Donald C. Dinsmore of Stokes, Hoyt and Company, as he stood on the trading floor, the sound of commerce buzzing around him like cicadas on a summer day. ''It sounds like not much is going on. I think eve n on Monday you could tell that the predictions were not going to come true. Norm ally you get a real lumpin your throat when a selling climax comes. Y ou feel like regurgitating, if you know what I mean.''  It is said by some that a market slump or a spate of trading can be predicted simply by the level of noise on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. It is said by some that a good afternoon is one during which all of the private, beige phones on the back wall at Harry's at Hanover Square - where brokers and bankers and lawyers eat and drink and talk golf and tennis -are in use.  But yesterday the forces of business had become so strong, so pervasive, that they had spilled out of Harry's low-ceilinged, sprawling restaurant, and off the trading floor littered with slips of white and pink paper and electronics wizardry, and into the narrow streets.  Certainly there are many people who work, are even integral parts of the financial district, who could care less about its intricacies. Two messengers from brokerage houses yesterday stood on Wall Street and argued about whether the late Thurman Munson was a better catcher than Rick Cerone. Both said they knew almost nothing about the market.  ''Who's got the money, anyhow?'' said John Spangler. ''You're talking big bucks.'' But Grace Eccheveria, who works for a law firm in the area, had had her husband explain it all to her.  ''He said it was like if everybody on our street heard that their property values were going down and decided to sell their house, that that's what happened in the morning,'' she said. ''And then if we decided maybe they were wrong and bought a house at much lower than it should have cost and so, when the values didn't go down, made a lot of money. That's what happened in the afternoon.''  ''I don't normally care,'' she added, ''but the way everybody was talking yesterday, I had to know, I thought they were going to start coming out the windows.''  That was the spectre that Mr. Granville had raised, the spectre of black Monday, the spectre of distraught brokers ending it all while their clients were put on perpetual hold. Some of the older men at the O.T.B. parlor on Broadway just below Wall said that that was why they put their money on horses and not shares, because they were old enough to remember 1929.  Even some small-time stockholders were shaken enough to breach taste and bring it up. But they were soothed by their brokers, and later, when the market rose, felt a bit silly. And yesterday at lunch time, their brokers went out the door and down to Harry's, where many were bullish on osso bucco.  ''If nothing else, Granville generated a lot of business,'' said Joseph A. Walker, who sells stocks.  And Harry himself, whose last name is Poulakokos and who has worked in the financial district for 23 years, first at Delmonico's and then running his o wn place, said that there would be a private party for several hundr ed people this week to celebrate the unshakable Wall Street.  ''When I first opened in 1972, the market was very bad, very bad,'' Harry said. ''So some people, they said, we will have a party to show that things will always get better. And now they have it every year. They will be happy this year. They are happy today; you can hear it. Some people think when the market is down it is better for me because people drink more, but it is not so. I am happy too. I am very happy, what they did -hah!'' And Harry snapped his fingers.  ''That was great. They were able to do the opposite of what Mr. Granville said. He has never come here to eat, and I don't think maybe he ever should.'' All the beige phones were occupied. 
