19820115
BIRTHDAYS should be fun, and double birthdays doubly so. It so happens that both the Grace Borgenicht Gallery, now at 724 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, and the Terry Dintenfass Gallery, now at 50 West 57th Street, this year celebrate their 20th anniversaries. What better plan, they thought, than to mark the occasion jointly, by showing work by artists who had been with them throughout the 20 years of their existence?  From there, the project ballooned. What if the figure 20 were accorded a decisive role, and not two but 20 galleries in all were to contribute to the birthday celebration at Borgenicht and Dintenfass? The criterion for admission would remain the same, and the shows would constitute an honor roll of mutual fidelity. The galleries in question represent almost every known tendency in art, and some of them have long passed the 20 years' minimum age. The Graham Gallery dates from 1857, for instance, the Kraushaar Gallery from 1885, the Pierre Matisse Gallery from 1931, the Midtown Gallery from 1931-32, the Willard Gallery from 1940, the Betty Parsons Gallery from 1946, the Janis Gallery from 1948 and so on. Each artist gets to show one early work and one late work. (The early ones are at Dintenfass, the later ones at Borgenicht, and both shows can be seen through Feb. 4.) Elayne H. Varian acted as guest curator, and the result certainly says something about fidelity in a context where fidelity is often thought to be in short supply. In particular the catalogue is one long love-in, with tributes heaped on all concerned.  Those tributes are well deserved, as it happens, but do not guarantee a coherent exhibition. Loyalty proves nothing, in esthetic terms. Some of our best artists shop around among the dealers. Some of our best dealers have their piratical side. So there is simply no rationale whatever to these two shows, beyond the wish to give pleasure to a lot of good people, some of whom are distinctly more gifted than others.  The exhibitions could be said to make most sense when the difference between early and late has something specific to tell us. Alice Neel's two portraits are an example of this. The ''Michael Auder'' of 1980 has a look of classical serenity, balance and refinement. The ''Robert Smithson'' of 1962 is almost identical in its pose, but a world away in all else. This could be a political prisoner awaiting interrogation, with a matching urgency in the brushwork and a pervading uneasiness in the drawing of shoulder and wrist.  There is a striking difference, likewise, between Robert Gwathmey's straightforward botanical painting of 1966 and his ''Two Tables With Fruit'' of 1975, which could be labeled ''School of Helion'' without insult. Isabel Bishop manifests a less dramatic but no less significant evolution. Her ''Lunch Hour'' of 1939 is full of the niceties of social detail, whereas the students in her ''Variations on the Theme of Walking'' (1979) stride out like young gods who will never need to have a Social Security number.  Many another conjunction of this kind can be made. Take the shows one piece at a time and feel free to skip, and you'll have a good time.  Other 57th Street shows of interest: Anthony Caro (Andre Emmerich Gallery, 41 East 57th Street): Sculpture is like conducting an orchestra, in that the only way to learn it is to do it. There are sculptors like the short-lived Gaston Duchamp-Villon who have found favor with posterity on the basis of just five or six works, but they are the exception. The true professional sculptor is the sculptor who produces every day and, if possible, every hour of every day.  Anthony Caro did not begin like that kind of sculptor. Many of the early metal works with which he made his name were laconic, fineboned structures, often large in scale, that took a big subject and said all that needed to be said about it. Definitive stat ements of that kind cannot be made every day. No one who is rethinking not only the aims of sculpture but also the mater ials of sculpture can produce on an industrial scale.  But Caro has come a long way in the last 20 years. Completely at home in an idiom that is far from having exhausted its possibilities, he now feels able - or so it seems - to take a chance with materials that would once have seemed either taboo or irrelevant. Bronze is one of these. Caro got to be Caro by abandoning bronze and working with ready-made industrial material - material, as he once said, that had no art history in it. And now, more than 1,000 carefully catalogued sculptures later, he is back with bronze in his show of ''Bronze Screens and Table Sculptures,'' just as he was back with it not long ago at the Acquavella Galleries.  Bronze is, of course, one of the most assertive of materials. To stop it from giving off a reek of art history is in itself an achievement. There is the further problem that whereas in 1962 a Caro looked like nothing that we had seen before, a Caro in 1982 is likely to look like another Caro, whether or not we see that as a compliment. So it is a considerable achievement that several of the smaller, lower, more ground-hugging new pieces in his show astonish us all over again by the energy and fertility of their invention. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
