19810522
W HAT do architects talk about at candlelit tables gleaming with crystal as white-gloved waiters serve up fingerbowls and champagne? Buildings.  ''This is the best room in the country - where would you find this in New York?'' asked Philip Johnson, the master architect of the Chippendale-topped A.T.&T. skyscraper in Manhattan.  ''Watch how those arches spring from column to column; General Meigs didn't know how to end it - he was a bloody engineer,'' said Washington's Hugh Jacobson, gazing up at the Pension Building's Corinthian columns soaring 120 feet to the ceiling.  They and 200 other guests, including Kingman Brewster Jr., J. Carter Brown and Peter Blake, gathered in the century-old Pension Building (the scene of 10 inaugural balls, now known as the National Building Museum) Tuesday evening to honor one of their own, the British architect James Stirling, the recipient of the world's largest prize in architecture - the Pritzker Prize.  What did Mr. Stirling, a rotund gentleman in a black velvet bow tie, plan to do with his $100,000 prize money? ''I'm not going to fund a chair or endow a lecture,'' he announced, ''the honest answer is, it means I can send my three children to college.''  ''D O you know who that guy is? asked Gerald Rafshoon in disbelief, nodding in the direction of a slightly knock-kneed gentleman dressed in a Mexican charro suit topped by an enormous sombrero that dipped at a rakish angle both fore and aft. ''That's our Ambassador to the Vatican,'' announced Mr. Rafshoon.  William Wilson - whose wife says emphatically that her husband has ''always been knock-kneed'' - was just one of 700 guests dressed ''western style'' at the Kennedy Center premiere of ''The Legend of the Lone Ranger.'' Californians (flown in by the film's co-producer Jack Wrather) joined slightly more-staid Washingtonians in whooping it up in poke bonnets, serapes, satin jeans, Indian headresses and 10-gallon hats.  The cowboy shirt of the White House counselor Edwin Meese 3d was ''from Sears,'' Mary Jane Wick was decked out in white boots and purple fringe and Richard S. Schweicker, Secretary of Health and Human Services, had unearthed a Stetson that had been given him at the 1976 Republican Convention when he shared a Presidential slate with a former Governor named Ronald Reagan.  Jayne Meadows, in turquoise and purple, beamed as Richard Krolik told her, ''You look like a train stop on the Santa Fe Railroad.''  K ITTY CARLISLE HART conducted a nostalgic musical stroll through her life Wednesday evening as she talked and sang about old friends. She knew them all: Cole Porter, Jerome Kern, George Gershwin, Richard Rodgers, Irving Berlin - and a gentleman by the name of Moss Hart.  It was the third in the Frank Doubleday Lecture series at the Smithsonian, and in the audience were the Dillon Ripleys, the senior Robert F. Wagners and W. Averell Harriman.  Mrs. Hart had been working on her voice for three months, she said, ''to get it up to snuff, you know, you know, to crank it up.'' Introduced by Roger G. Kennedy as the ''consummate representative of that collaborative art form, the American musical theater,'' Mrs. Hart told her audience: ''That was a lovely introduction, and I needed that. My cab driver this evening asked, 'Are you Kitty Carlisle?' and I preened slightly and said, 'Yes, I am.' 'That's nice,' said the driver, 'I had another old-timer in the cab last night.' '' Barbara Gamarekian  Illustrations: photo of Kitty Carlisle Hart 
