19810503
HARTFORD VISITORS in the galleries at the State Capitol watching the General Assembly in action these days may wish they had a scorecard at times to keep track of the participants in a debate. But they may also wish they had a dictionary as well.  The General Assembly, like most bodies where laws are made and unmade, legislates in a kind of shorthand. The jargon varies from legislature to legislature, but lawmakers and staff members quickly learn it and converse in it.  To the uninitiated, however, the language of the legislative process in Hartford can be as understandable as a debate on supplyside economics. In an attempt to make things a little clearer, the General Assembly last year published a handbook of some of the more commonly used legislative terms. As the foreward to the handbook explained:  ''There are no full-time interpreters employed by the Connecticut General Assembly , so you will have to learn quickly on your own how to communicate in this language if you are to participate effectively in the legislative environment.''  Here is an unoffical translation of some of the legislative jargon that will be heard frequently in the Senate and the House of Representatives as they enter their final busy month of the regular session:  P.R. - This has nothing to do with public relations or Puerto Rico. Some bills on the House or Senate calendar are ''P.R.'d,'' or ''pass retained,'' which means that they are passed over for consideration that day but retain their place on the calendar for consideration at a later date.  P.T. - A bill on the calendar that is ''P.T.'d'' is put aside temporarily for consideration later that day. This is not a reference to P.T. Barnum or to the torpedo boats of World War II.  Foot of the Calendar - A motion to move a bill to ''the foot of the calendar'' puts the measure into limbo at the bottom of the printed calendar of each day's session. The bill cannot be brought up for consideration until a subsequent motion is approved to remove the bill ''from the foot.'' Bills usually go to the foot when their sponsors don't have enough votes for passage and want more time to muster support.  Boxed - Legislative committees in Hartford do not ''kill'' bills; they ''box'' them. Each committee has a metal box of bills referred to that committee. A motion to ''box'' puts a measure back into the bill box and it usually stays there for the rest of the session.  J.F. - The General Assembly has joint committees of the two houses, and a bill that is ''J.F.'d'' is one that has been approved by a majority of the committee and sent to the House or Senate for consideration. ''J.F.'' is jargon for a Joint Favorable Report by the committee.  Emergency Cert - This is a device by which legislative leaders can get a bill out of committee and to the House and Senate floor for action. Bills can materialize under this procedure when the Speaker of the House and the President pro tem of the Senate sign an ''emergency certification.'' Democratic legislative leaders used this procedure recently when they had rounded up enough votes to pass the budget and several bills raising taxes. A majority of the members of either chamber can also pry a bill out of committee by petitions.  Reconsideration - This is a device that can work two ways: to resurrect a bill that has been defeated or to drive one more nail into a bill's coffin. A legislator who voted on the prevailing (or winning) side on a bill can move to reconsider the measure, bringing it up for consideration a second time. Democratic leaders in the House used this procedure recently to pass the budget that had initially been defeated. It also has been used by opponents of a bill to bring the measure up and kill it for the second time, thus ensuring its final defeat.  Recommit - The House or Senate can vote to send a bill back to a committee. This is another way to kill a measure late in the legislative session since the deadline for committees to act on bills has already passed.  G.T.B. - This should not be confused with OTB. ''G.T.B.'' stands for Guaranteed Tax Base and is the name of the program in Connecticut under which state aid for education is paid to the towns in an effort to equalize the financial support for public schools among the richer and poorer towns. OTB, of course, is offtrack betting - a gamble whose payout depends on such variables as the horse and the odds. ''G.T.B.'' looked like a sure thing until a mistake was discovered that threatened to cut back on school aid this year and until the legislature began putting limits on increases in payments in future years. Some local school officials think ''G.T.B.'' gets more like OTB every year.  Lapses - A hot item for discussion in the recent budget fight was ''lapses.'' This referred to money that had been appropriated to state agencies but had not actually been spent. A ''lapse'' in an agency's spending meant there was money that could be trimmed from the budget for the next fiscal year.  Add backs - This was another popular term in the budget debate. In some cases the Governor had proposed cutting the appropriations for a given agency by a certain amount, but the legislature decided more money was needed and it was ''added back'' to what the Governor had requested.  Put another way, the budget, with all the G.T.B., the lapses and the add-backs, was J.F.'d, emergency certed and reconsidered. It also passed. 
