19810321
WHITE PLAINS, March 20— Friends of Dr. Herman Tarnower have contributed about $200,000 toward projects in his memory since the Westchester County cardiologist was slain last year.  White Plains Hospital, where he was chief of cardiology, received two donations totaling $100,000, which is being used for a ''noninvasive cardiology diagnostic laboratory.'' The laboratory is equipped with a nuclear scanner machine that allows doctors to evaluate, without surgery, patients who may have more subtle symptoms of heart disease than would be revealed by other methods of examination.  The rest of the donations, all of which were anonymous, were given to the Westchester/Putnam Chapter of the American Heart Association. Using those funds as capital, the chapter has established the Herman Tarnower Memorial Research Award, which Dr. Walter H. Herbert, president of the chapter, said would be presented annually after this year, when appropriate, to ''established, highly qualified researchers.'' Award Estimated at $25,000  Dr. Herbert, who said there would be no presentation this year, estimated the amount of the award at $25,000, the largest research award ever granted by the Westchester chapter. ''It will be a very special award,'' he said, noting that Dr. Tarnower had founded the county association and was its first president.  The money was originally intended to go to the Westchester County Medical Center for a surgical research laboratory to be named for Dr. Tarnower, who had been raising money for it before his death, but Dr. Herbert said technical difficulties over distribution of the funds led to a change of plans. Dr. George Reed, chief of cardiothoracic surgery at the medical center, said the endowment was to have been presented to Dr. Tarnower at the Heart Association's annual dinner last April 19.  In the year since Dr. Tarnower's death, ''The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet,'' the book of which he was co-author, has remained a best seller. A spokesman for Bantam, the paperback publisher, said that in January the book became the first to have appeared on The New York Times's mass-market paperback bestseller list for 53 consecutive weeks.  As of last week, it was still on the list and in its 28th printing. There are about 700,000 hard-cover copies of the book in print, according to a spokesman for Rawson-Wade, the publisher. An Undelivered Speech  Dr. Tarnower had told friends that while he thought he had been ''a pretty good cardiologist,'' he would probably be remembered as a ''diet doctor.'' In preparing the speech he was to have delivered at the association's dinner -the bulk of which was devoted to thanking individuals who had been involved in the founding of the group and its activities -he wrote:  ''The progress of the last 30 years has been spectacular. To describe in detail the many changes that have taken place in the field of cardiovascular disease would require a symposium lasting several weeks.''  Then, discussing his plans for the laboratory at the medical center, he wrote: ''It was possible to be a leader 30 years ago by dint of imagination and application. This no longer pertains. The one thing that can move medicine to higher, effective levels is new information, and the only source of new knowledge is reseach.''  The speech began with a statement that turned out to be sadly ironic: ''Anniversaries always arouse mixed emotions,'' Dr. Tarnower wrote. ''We are happy to have had the good fortune to survive and witness the many changes that have transpired, saddened by the loss of loved ones and the thought of what might have been.'' 
