19820127
The news that Nancy Reagan accepts expensive designer clothing as loans and gifts from elegant fashion houses has upset the usual people.  ''What's this about Mrs. Reagan getting free clothes?'' writes a Princeton woman. ''I thought the Reagan crowd hated handouts. They're always saying there's no free lunch. Why don't they practice what they preach?''  On the other hand if she can improve business by modeling their garments, where's the harm? A high-priced merchandiser in New York tells me the one thing moving well in his shop is designer clothing for rich women, and he attributes this entirely to Mrs. Reagan's success in reviving women's interest in the $10,000 designer ensemble.  On this evidence you have to conclude that Mrs. Reagan's policy is good for business, which is more than you can say right now for Mr. Reagan's policy.  What bothers me is the museum problem. After being worn by Mrs. Reagan, the free clothes are going to be distributed among 12 museums as artifacts of historical interest like dinosaur bones and 1925 gasoline pumps. Since museu ms dote on things worn at great events there will be lively compet ition for clothes that Mrs. Reagan wore to the speech and the dance on Inauguration Day and probably on one or two historicoccasions yet to come in the Reagan Administration.  The churlish tone of her letter makes me suspect this is a woman nobody is sending any free clothes to. I urge this woman and others like her to calm down. Sure the Reagan people are always saying there's no free lunch, but they've never said, ''There's no free clothes.''  Even if ''There's no free clothes'' were adopted into the Reagan philosophy, Mrs. Reagan wouldn't be in violation of the code because she plans to give the clothes to museums after she's worn them. By accepting the clothes and being seen in them, she is doing a modeling service for American designers who profit from having their goods displayed on one of the country's most photographed women.  If she wanted to operate on strict business principles Mrs. Reagan would be justified in collecting top-drawer model fees. In my view, her failure to do so shows a refined sensibility about her position as First Lady. I wouldn't want the President's wife drawing salary from Seventh Avenue needle-and-thread czars.  With those exceptions though, the rest of the stuff is not likely to make a curator's mouth water. Museums at the bottom of the list will have to make do with things like the gloves Mrs. Reagan wore at her first tea with the Congressional wives and the hat she was wearing upon her first meeting with Helmut Schmidt on the White House lawn.  All right, these too have a certain value. Not so much maybe as a spare set of dinosaur bones that can be set up in the great hall when the good set of dinosaur bones is sent out for cleaning, but some.  The danger lies in the possibility of inundation by Mrs. Reagan's free clothes. Suppose you are in charge of a museum and it is the third or fourth year of the Reagan Administration. Yesterday you received the little $1,200 taffeta blouse Mrs. Reagan wore the night she and the President watched ''Knute Rockne - All American'' with Senator Jesse Helms in the White House movie room.  You arrive at the museum this morning and guess what just came in the mail. Right you are. The $2,500 pongee scarf that Mrs. Reagan was wearing when she picked up the President at the barber shop the day he forgot what the unemployment rate was.  As if that weren't bad enough, you face a revolt in the antique technology department. They want to know why you have space to display mannequins wearing 223 items of Mrs. Reagan's free clothes, but can't give them room for 10 1925 gasoline pumps.  It makes you so angry that you'd like to kick a 1925 gasoline pump with the $2,200 leather boots that Mrs. Reagan wore the first time she and the President played backgammon in the Blue Room, if only they were size 11.  Is it any wonder that you listen with soaring spirit when a famous designer telephones and asks if you've got any First Lady free clothes for sale at reasonable prices? You would have to be cautious of course.  ''Under no circumstances must you give any clothes from our collection free to Mrs. Reagan. We don't want to seem unappreciative.''  I think the famous designer asks if you're nuts before saying, ''With the simoleons my customers are willing to cough up for anything worn by the First Lady, I'd be crazy to give the stuff away.'' It makes me feel sorry for Mrs. Reagan. Aft er doing all the work and running up the profits for somebody else, all she gets is the illwill of museum keepers. 
