19810427
LOS ANGELES, April 26— While legal experts in California debate the pros and cons of joint custody, divorced couples such as Beverly and Marvin Philo of Sacramento and Chuck and Joan Mathison of Long Beach are living with it - after a few adjustments.  Like many women, Mrs. Philo says she once believed ''in the oldfashioned idea of leaving the child with the mother.'' Accordingly, when the Philos' marriage ended two years ago she sought sole custody of Eric, now 13 years old, and Alex, 10.  Marvin Philo favored joint custody at the time of their separation, nine months before the joint custody law became effective. Since they could not agree, he moved into a spare bedroom until the effective date. ''I was determined not to move, '' he recalls. ''I felt if I gave up de facto custody, I gave legal custody.''  Faced with the possibility of losing custody under the new law, Mrs. Philo relented and agreed to share the children. ''I had to be convinced,'' she concedes now, after a year of spending every other week with her sons. ''But I really believe it's very important that both parents share in the responsibilities of caring for their children.''  ''We're still a family but under two roofs, '' Mr. Philo says. Eric and Alex rotate between the old house, where their father lives, and their mother's new house, which is five blocks away and across the street from their school. ''It suits me fine, except the packing takes a lot of time,'' Alex says. Eric adds, ''I think it's great because we see them both. We'd rather have them together but this is the next best thing.''  Unlike the Philos, the Mathisons agreed to share custody of Lisa, now 13, and Todd, 12, when they separated three years ago. But the law giving preferred status to joint custody was not in effect at the time and the court refused to make a joint custody award.  Mr. Mathison, a systems engineer for a computer company, is still bitter about this. ''The court system isn't ready for joint custody, '' he says. ''It's a solution for people who can't live with each other but love their children.''  Despite the court decision, the Mathisons decided to go ahead with an informal and flexible joint custody plan. At first, Mrs. Mathison lived with the children in the family house. A year later, she moved out and Mr. Mathison moved in.  Mrs. Mathison was then studying for a bachelor's degree in social work. ''The pressure of my studies was a lot easier to handle, '' she says, ''because the worry about the kids was alleviated. I knew they were getting enough attention with their father.''  At the end of the second year, when the children changed schools, the family home was sold. Mrs. Mathison rented a smaller house in the same area and Lisa and Todd now live primarily with her. Beginning next month, however, they will live primarily with their father.  Mrs. Mathison is moving to Arizona for a year of graduate study. She will see the children only during the summer and on holidays. ''I'm scared and a little worried that I might lose contact with the kids,'' she says. ''I'm going to be 500 miles away.''  As for the children, Todd says, ''I'd rather she wasn't moving but I know it's for the best.'' Lisa says, ''I wish I could still see her a lot.'' 
