20030306
 Tastings: Making Our Case for Collecting Wine --- A Dozen Bottles That Prove The Virtues of Patience; You Like It? Buy Another   By By Dorothy J. Gaiter and John Brecher, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 7, 2003  All that said, tasting how a wine changes with age, even just a little age, is one of the pleasures of wine drinking. We're asked all the time how you can tell when a wine is at its peak. Our best answer is that you can't know for sure until you open it. Every wine is different, every bottle is different and storage conditions matter. But wines do change with time, for better or worse, and we've always gotten a thrill from the element of surprise. We have sometimes cellared very inexpensive bottles -- usually not intentionally, but because we just didn't get around to drinking them -- and found that, some years later, they could easily pass for very expensive wines. On the other hand, of course, we've opened bottles after a few years that should have been great but that were sadly over the hill.  A GOOD CHIANTI. Most of us think of Chianti as a simple, easy-drinking wine that we pop open to have with spaghetti. But better Chianti -- look for Chianti Classico, perhaps Riserva, that costs $20 to $25 -- is beautiful, complex wine. With some age, you'll see that it develops even more elegance and layers of flavor. Antinori is always a good name to look for. Cennatoio is remarkable, and good old Ruffino Riserva Ducale, with the gold label, is very reliable.  Now, take your case of wine and lay the wines flat in a place where it's dark, with a moderate temperature. Mark your calendar and start opening them in a year, or two or three. The changes will be interesting. But more important, you will see that there's no big trick to cellaring wine. One reason people don't keep wine around the house is that they're terrified they'll ruin it somehow. Wine is pretty tough. By safely storing these for a while, and then finding that they taste great, you will have gotten over that hurdle.   
