19810131
WHITE PLAINS, Jan. 30— Jean S. Harris, ending her fourth day on the witness stand today, denied that her intended suicide was meant to be ''a big last act.'' She said: ''I had led a private life and wanted to die a private death.''  Later in the day the prosecutor began his cross-examination. Mrs. Harris is accused of murdering Dr. Herman Tarnower, who she says died in a struggle for her gun.  Still testifying under the questioning of her lawyer, Joel Aurnou, Mrs. Harris was asked to explain her ''intentions'' the fatal night of March 10 after a hoped-for ''final'' talk with Dr. Tarnower turned into an argument. The cardiologist had been her companion and lover for most of 14 years.  ''My intent was to walk out,'' she said, but when she picked up her pocketbook and felt the weight of the gun that was in it, ''I just took it out to use it there.'' She said her original plan was to shoot herself alongside the duck pond, where the doctor had once said he wanted his ashes scattered.  ''It was important to me for Hy not to know I was suicidal that night,'' Mrs. Harris testified. Although she had referred earlier to her ''script'' going wrong, she denied the suicide was to be ''the last act.''  ''I had led a private life and wanted to die a private death,'' she said. Speaking quietly in the courtroom in Westchester County Court, she put it another way: ''It was not to be a grandstand play, but it sort of sounds that way. I didn't mean for him to see it.''  Mr. Aurnou then asked her a question that brought a murmur from the spectators in the packed courtroom and a shouted objection from George Bolen, the prosecutor. Mr. Aurnou asked: ''If you felt so strongly about dying, why haven't you done anything to kill yourself since then?''  Judge Russell R. Leggett upheld the objection. The witness, who is charged with second-degree murder, said: ''I think I want to answer that,'' but she was not allowed to do so.  Mr. Aurnou used his last day of direct examination to clear up what he seemed to feel were possible inconsistencies in his client's testimony, which she has punctuated with references to earlier testimony.  The session ended on a dramatic note - the introduction, but not the reading, of the so-called ''Scarsdale letter,'' which Mrs. Harris sent Dr. Tarnower the day of the shooting. Mr. Bolen, who has been seeking to read it since the trial began, planned to examine it over the weekend. Significance of the Letter  It was recovered by Mr. Aurnou's office from the Scarsdale post office, with the notation ''Addressee Deceased,'' minutes before the District Attorney's investigators arrived, and it has been an object of legal battles since then.  Mrs. Harris, the 57-year-old former headmistress of the Madeira School for girls in McLean, Va., said under Mr. Bolen's crossexamination that the long letter reflected her ''state of mind'' at that time, her last full day on the campus. She has described getting her affairs in order and preparing for what was to be a final fivehour drive to New York.  Just before the defense lawyer turned his client over to the prosecutor, he asked her if she could express her feelings about the relationship that existed between the 69-year-old doctor and Lynne Tryforos, 38, his administrative assistant for 19 years at the Scarsdale Medical Group.  Mrs. Tryforos, a divorced mother of two children, has been portrayed in the three-month-old trial as having replaced Mrs. Harris in the doctor's affections. What Led to the Argument  It was Mrs. Harris's discovery of Mrs. Tryforos's negligee in his bedroom the night of March 10 that started the argument leading to the shooting.  Speaking of the doctor's relationship with Mrs. Tryforos, the witness said: ''I thought it denigrated Hy, but then, I thought the book did, too, so maybe I was wrong.'' The reference was to ''The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet,'' the best-seller that was written by Dr. Tarnower.  ''Did those feelings have anything to do with you being in Purchase the night of March 10?'' Mr. Aurnou asked, seeking to undermine the prosecution's assertion that Mrs. Harris shot the doctor in a jealous rage. He was wounded in the right hand, upper chest, upper arm and shoulder.  ''No, they didn't,'' Mrs. Harris replied. ''I think it depressed me to see Hy be less than I thought he was. That could have been part of my depression, but they had nothing to do with Hy. I had feelings about myself and my own integrity.'' Recalling the Shooting  Mr. Aurnou devoted most of the day getting his client to clarify the details of the shooting, but when he was finished she still could account for only three of the five shots fired that night. But first he sought to clear up other matters.  He asked if she aware that there was another phone in the house. ''No, I wasn't,'' she said, ''not until the trial started.'' The prosecution has sought to have the jury wonder why Mrs. Harris left the house to seek help, when Dr. Tarnower's ''servants,'' as the defendant has called them, were close at hand and had their own telephone. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
