20021203
 A Global Journal Report: China's Mixed WTO Grades --- Its First Year as a Member Has Produced Qualified Liberalization   By By Murray Hiebert in Washington and Peter Wonacott in Beijing, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 4, 2002  A strong economy helped China absorb some early shocks of WTO membership. In many cases, the market opening spurred growth. Pledged foreign investment surged a year-on-year 35% in the first 10 months of 2002. Falling car tariffs prompted a price war and a buying boom, bolstering not only car makers but also suppliers such as steelmakers. "In the past year, we've had some challenges from fierce competition from abroad," says He Ning, head of WTO affairs at China's Trade Ministry. "But it's not been as much as we expected."  Some of the most painful WTO promises have yet to be phased in, so the real test may come in a year or two. Within five years, Chinese and foreign banks must compete on an equal footing. Two years after joining the WTO, restrictions on many kinds of distribution by foreign retailers must end. In addition, agricultural tariffs will keep dropping while import quotas will be expanded -- moves that could hit the impoverished countryside with a flood of cheap farm imports. "The downside of WTO hasn't shown its teeth," said Chen Huanzhong, a Beijing lawyer specializing in China trade cases. "The Chinese farmer is going to suffer a lot."  There has been considerable backsliding on WTO commitments regarding agriculture. In mid-2001, Beijing imposed rules requiring safety certificates for the imports of genetically modified grains, without giving details of how a company gets a certificate. More recently, the Ministry of Health issued biotech food safety and labeling regulations that threaten to cut off imports of processed food without notifying the WTO. "Tariff rates are coming down, but China has yanked the gate closed by imposing other barriers," says Brendan Harrington, an assistant vice president of food company Cargill.   
