20010311
 E-Commerce(A Special Report): The Classroom --- On The Job: Corporate E-learning Makes Training Available Anytime, Anywhere   By By Rob Eure, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 12, 2001  Web-based training is still a small part of the $58 billion that U.S. corporations spend annually on employee training. But it has quickly risen to capture about a third of the money those companies spend externally on training, says Cushing Anderson, the lead e-learning analyst at IDC. And Mr. Anderson argues that the e-learning industry is poised to enjoy explosive growth in the coming decade. "As the economy moves from the production of goods to services, the instant knowledge that e-learning can deliver will become increasingly important," he says. "Most companies are going to outsource their training, so this market is going to grow."  Instead, he says, the benefits are in time savings -- and those can be substantial. With e-learning, employees currently can complete a course in five hours that would take eight hours in a traditional classroom setting. In a couple of years, Mr. [Bill Wiggenhorn] says, "we think that will drop to 2 1/2 hours." That means Motorola, which requires a minimum of 40 hours a year in training, can more than triple the amount of training that workers receive in the same amount of time. And a companywide initiative can be presented to employees in a month, "when it would have taken three or more months to gather workers for in-person presentations," Mr. Wiggenhorn says.  Despite the hype, e-learning isn't likely to replace the classroom or seminar. For one thing, some types of employee learning -- such as team building -- just don't lend themselves to an individual setting, says Mr. Wiggenhorn. And, he says, "despite the manager's dream that workers will do this learning on their own time," Motorola has found its workers prefer not to sit at their desks for Web-based training. "Our engineers like a change of scenery and the social interaction with others in class," Mr. Wiggenhorn says. "You'd expect engineers to be among the most comfortable with the computer, so if they feel that way, then we think it's a pretty powerful argument" for maintaining separate learning areas.   
