20070213
 Home Lenders Pare Risky Loans; More Defaults Prompt Cut In 'Piggyback' Mortgages; Housing Market May Suffer   By James R. Hagerty and Ruth Simon, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 14, 2007  The subprime mortgage market has mushroomed in recent years as lenders found that investors both in the U.S. and abroad were eager to buy securities backed by such loans. Mr. [Thomas Lawler], the economist, estimates that 17% to 18% of mortgage-financed home purchases in the U.S. last year involved subprime loans. About half of the subprime home-purchase loans included in mortgage securities last year were piggybacks, according to a recent report by Credit Suisse Group in New York. And about 43% of subprime loans packaged in securities in 2006 didn't require the borrowers to fully document their income or assets, a type of mortgage sometimes derided as a "liar's loan" because it can encourage borrowers to exaggerate their means to get a loan.  At a conference Monday, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. fixed-income strategist Michael Marschoun said 20% of the loans "cause more than half the losses" in the subprime market. "These are loans that have absolutely horrendous loss performance, and my prediction is these loans will simply not be originated going forward." These are "risk- layered" loans that have some combination of a low credit score, low down payment, low documentation and investment property.  Borrowers who can no longer get piggyback loans may turn to mortgage insurance, often sold as a way to let borrowers obtain loans totaling more than 80% of the home's estimated value, but mortgage insurers draw the line on some risks. "We're comfortable...insuring borrowers who have lower credit scores, provided that there is full documentation," said Mike Zimmerman, vice president of investor relations for mortgage insurer MGIC Investment Corp. MGIC doesn't insure subprime second-lien loans based on the borrower's "stated," or undocumented, income. MGIC also doesn't insure subprime loans that total 100% of the estimated home value, he said.   
