19860217
PARIS, Feb. 16— French Air Force planes today bombarded an airfield that was a hub for supplying Libyan-supported rebels in northern Chad, Defense Minister Paul Quiles said.  Mr. Quiles said the French planes had hit the runway of the airfield at Wadi Doum, deep inside territory controlled by the rebel groups fighting the Government of Hissen Habre.  After the bombing raid, 200 French Air Force commandos arrived in Chad's capital, Ndjamena, to defend the airport there, officials said. There have been no French troops in Chad since France withdrew its forces from the country 15 months ago.  The moves represented the strongest French measures since the rebels broke a two-year calm last week by attacking several Government posts south of the so-called Red Line that divides Chad along the 16th parallel.  ''This action demonstrates our determination to come to the aid of Chad in the face of a foreign aggression,'' Mr. Quiles said at a news conference today.  The airfield at Wadi Doum, he said, was ''a hub for the resupply of the forces that have been attacking south of the 16th parallel.'' The site is about 90 miles northeast of Faya-Largeau, a large oasis town held by the rebels. 'Everything and Nothing'  Asked if he expected a Libyan response to the bombing, Mr. Quiles said, ''We expect everything and we expect nothing.''  Mr. Quiles said all French planes had returned safely after the mission, despite what he called ''the active presence'' of Libyan radar and Soviet-built SAM-6 antiaircraft missiles. He refused to say whether the French planes had been fired upon.  He did not say where the sorties began, but the most likely possibility was Bangui, the capital of the Central African Republic, where France has assembled a squadron of about 15 Jaguar and Mirage fighter-bombers.  Meanwhile, Mr. Quiles announced that 90 French military personnel arrived in Ndjamena on Saturday night to supervise the unloading of military equipment that France has been sending there since the middle of last week.  The French attack was clearly designed to cripple Libyan efforts to resupply the forces loyal to Goukouni Oueddei, a former President of Chad who is backed by Libya in the current stage of the 20-year-old civil war.  Mr. Quiles said the Wadi Doum landing strip was built last year and could handle military aircraft of any kind.  He said Libyan troops had taken part in the renewed offensive, particularly in the eastern part of the country near Oum Chalouba, one of three main points south of the Red Line attacked by the rebels in the last week.  France established the line along the 15th parallel in August 1983 when it sent 3,000 soldiers to Chad to back the Government forces. France said at the time that it would not permit Libyan or Libyan-backed troops to move south of the line, which it redrew at the 16th parallel in February 1984.  France took its forces out of Chad in November 1984 after it signed an agreement with the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, for a mutual troop withdrawal. Libya did not comply with the agreement.  A map on the wall of Mr. Quiles's office indicated there were 4,500 Libyan troops in the northern sector of Chad backed by 60 tanks, 150 light armored vehicles and several helicopters. ----Libya Says Site Was Civilian TRIPOLI, Libya, Feb. 16 - Libya asserted today that the airfield that French bombers attacked was a civilian airport in northern Chad.  ''The airport is used for landing medical supplies and food for the famine victims in the north of Chad,'' the Government-controlled radio said.  Libya denies having any soldiers in Chad. Colonel Qaddafi asserted in November that Libya maintained only ''technical advisers'' there.  Many diplomats expressed surprise that Libya would permit the rebels to renew fighting while it is involved in a confrontation with the United States.  A diplomat who follows Chad closely said dissension within Goukouni Oueddei's rebel faction had prompted Libya to renew military hostilities in order to force the rebel groups to reunite.  Photo of Defense Minister of France Paul Quiles with map of Wadi Doum airfield in Chad as he spoke at news briefing in Paris (Reuters) 
