19820606
WARREN HOGE is the Rio de Janeiro bureau chief of The Times. BY WARREN HOGE  When Oscar Niemeyer went to the scrubby, arid tableland of central Brazil a quarter-century ago to build Brasilia, there was nothing doing there at all. It took an irresistibly phrased offer from President Juscelino Kubitschek to attract the noted Brazilian architect: ''How would you like to be my Michelangelo?''  Today the sleek city that the two men worked on has become an attraction in itself. While it is still far from being the tourist draw that Rio de Janeiro or an Amazon river trip are, it is a great experiment in 20th-century architecture, the capital of a restless nation with great-power ambitions and, with its suburbs, home to more than a million and a half people.It is common these days to hear of cases where families accustomed to the fresh, pollution-free climate, open spaces and ease of getting around in Brasilia resist transfers back to Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo.  Visitors are happily exempt from the debate over the merits of living in Brasilia. For the tourist, the bonus that Brasilia offers is that it is quick to make an impact and easy to see in a short time. The Background  One can fly to Brasilia from Rio or Sao Paulo in less than an hour and a half today, but the journey from the supply point of Belo Horizonte 450 miles away took four days for the original planners 25 years ago.  The land was uninhabited and inhospitable. You can stand today at the wooden cross where the first mass was said in 1957 and, raising your eyes just above the horizon of steel and glass apartment buildings toward government office buildings and ministries, see the surrounding barren ridges and appreciate what sheer wastes the designers confronted.  As far back as the 18th century, Portuguese colonizers and Brazilian republicans talked of the need for an inland capital. The notion was that Brazil would never attain its fated greatness unless it ventured in from the comforts of the coast. The first constitution drafted in Lisbon for the independent regency of Brazil in 1821 even suggested the name ''Brasilia.''  In 1955, Mr. Kubitschek, then a candidate for the presidency, was challenged during a campaign stop to fulfill this constitutional pledge. Mr. Kubitschek agreed on the spot to the proposition.  Once in office he boldly announced that Brasilia would be built in three years and dedicated April 21, 1960. He had barracks erected for himself and the designers and he made a series of personal, backslapping visits to the work site. On the appointed date, 200,000 people gathered in the evening and watched the city come alive in a sudden blaze of floodlights and fireworks.  ''Three years ago at this very spot,'' Mr. Kubitschek said at the inaugural ball, ''a wolf crossed in front of my car. His eyes became phosphorescent in the headlights. Today, I receive 3,000 guests in tails.'' Sightseeing  The city can be toured quite easily in a single day. Staying overnight brings two benefits. Sunsets on the Brazilian ''planalto,'' or tableland, are as spectacular as any at sea and, as on the inaugural night, the white marble government buildings are most stirring when lit against the night sky.  Start at the new monument to Mr. Kubitschek, located on the main axis next to the cross where the first mass was said. The building houses the tomb of the former president, who died in an automobile crash in 1976.  From the monument go to the trelliswork tower a short distance away where an elevator will take you to a breezy observation deck 250 feet above the ground that affords a panorama of the entire city. The shape of Brasilia has been compared to that of an airplane, with the fuselage encompassing the government buildings and the two wings the blocks of apartment buildings.  Following the main axis you will come to the National Cathedral, a striking building whose 16 arched columns sweep up from the ground. A broad greensward runs between the parallel columns of glass-sided government ministries that march resolutely toward the commanding visual symbol of Brasilia, the twin towers flanked by the dish-shaped structures topping the House of Deputies and the Senate. On the right, mirrored in a surrounding moat filled with lily pads, is the graceful Itamarati Palace, home of the foreign ministry and, in this writer's opinion, the most pleasing work in Brasilia of the city's architect, Mr. Niemeyer.  Behind the congressional buildings is the Three Powers Plaza with a splendid dovecote, also designed by Mr. Niemeyer, and a massive flagpole put up later by the country's military rulers. There is a small museum, a statue by the Brazilian sculptor Bruno Giorgi to the men who constructed Brasilia, the Supreme Court and the Planalto Palace where the president has his offices. Tuesday evenings at sundown the army stages a colorful flag-lowering ceremony that features a band, some smart parading, a dragoon honor guard and the appearance of the president striding down the ramp to his limousine. The People  When in Brasilia, you can't really do as the Brazilians do. Since there is little activity of a public nature, life centers on family and friends. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
