19850517
WASHINGTON, May 16— On the flight home from his latest inconclusive meeting in Vienna with Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko of the Soviet Union, Secretary of State George P. Shultz was musing about the value of such sessions.  ''I thought it was a useful meeting,'' he said of the six-hour session, speaking to reporters in so soft a voice that he could barely be heard over the roar of the engines. ''It's better to have it, rather than not to have it. I sat and listened as he went through an extensive list of things. I had the floor toward the end, and I had things I wanted to go through, and he didn't say, 'Well, it's getting late and let's stop.' He heard me out to the end. We both did that.''  Would there be a summit meeting between President Reagan and the Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev? ''I have nothing further to say on the subject,'' he answered. ''I just have to leave it there.''  It was a typical reply for Mr. Shultz, a ferverent advocate of quiet, unspectacular diplomacy. As he put it at one point on his recent trip, which included other stops in Europe besides Vienna as well as visits in the Middle East, his goal is to ''keep the level of frustration down and the level of effort up.'' He was referring in that comment to the parties in the Middle East, but it could just as well serve as his own personal motto.  For that matter, the entire 16-day trip was a typical Shultz trip, filled with long, tiring hours and little effort on his part to make bold headlines. In his three years as Secretary of State, he has consistently operated in that manner.  Content to Play a Senior Aide  On the part of the trip in which he traveled with the President on Air Force One, he was very content to play the role of a senior assistant, participating in behind-the-scenes meetings with other foreign ministers and helping out Larry Speakes, the White House spokesmen, with almost daily briefings on the substance of Mr. Reagan's talks with world leaders. Mr. Shultz carefully tailored his remarks so that they rarely produced much news.  After separating from Mr. Reagan, he was master of his own Air Force plane. And he did his best to avoid discussing the most important aspects of his trip, which were his talks with King Hussein of Jordan and Prime Minister Shimon Peres of Israel about Palestinian representation in any future Middle East negotiations. Had he discussed the names of Palestinians who might be acceptable to the Israelis and to the Arab side as negotiators? ''I am not going to get into the question of names,'' he snapped. ''I won't discuss that.'' Again, vintage Shultz. As he headed at last for home, he looked fatigued from having been on the road for 16 days, the first 10 with President Reagan in Europe and the last 6 visiting Lisbon, Tel Aviv, Cairo and Aqaba, Jordan, before arriving in Vienna last Monday. His voice was a bit hoarse, and he occasionally massaged his vocal cords as he spoke in his forward cabin to the small group of reporters, each of whom extended a tape recorder or microphone into Mr. Shultz's face so as to catch all that was said.  At one point, Mr. Shultz paused to reflect where he had heard Mr. Gromyko say something. ''As tired as I am,'' he said, ''I have a hard time separating out what was said in conversation and what wasn't.''  Although Mr. Shultz practices diplomacy today just as he did when he first became Secretary of State, after three years in the job he is clearly at a transition point. Some of his cloest aides are leaving him. Kenneth W. Dam, the No. 2 man at the State Department, who has been involved with Mr. Shultz in one way or other for 15 years, has decided to go to I.B.M. as a vice president. Richard R. Burt, the assistant secretary of State for European and Canadian affairs, who was a principal arms control adviser, became disenchanted with Washington life and is now counting the days until he is named Ambassador to Bonn. Paul D. Wolfowitz, the assistant secretary for East Asian and Pacific affairs, will probably become Ambassador to Indonesia later in the year.  Inevitably, with progress becoming difficult to achieve in any key foreign policy area, questions are raised whether Mr. Shultz will stick it out to the end of Mr. Reagan's term or de-cide to return to Stanford University and teaching, which is his first love.  He is a very private person and does not confide in many people. His aides say they think he will remain because his own pride, they say, drives him to want to achieve something tangible in foreign policy, whether it be in the Middle East or in relations with the Soviet Union.  He also seems to enjoy the work, the intellectual stimulation of dealing with important issues of war and peace, as well as the social perquisites of dealing regularly with the power brokers of the world. He is clearly not at home with strategic views, but prefers handling discreet issues rather than sweeping ideas.  When his aides brief him, they find that he will become engrossed in the smallest details. If told that the Navy was sending some ships somewhere, for instance, he would more likely than not quiz the briefer on the speed and armaments of the ships, one associate said, than on the long-term significance of the move.  One aide said seriously the other day that one way the White House could solve the rift between Mr. Shultz and Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger would be to have them switch jobs. Mr. Shultz, they said, is an advocate of using military power for diplomatic ends, and Mr. Weinberger seems to enjoy the public limelight more than Mr. Shultz does. ''Just think about it,'' the aide said. ''They'd probably both thrive in the other place.''  With a background in labor mediation, Mr. Shultz puts a premium on confidential negotiations, and like most labor mediatiors, he is basically optimistic about the chances of achieving something through patient diplomacy. He seems to disdain having to talk to the press about what is going on before there are concrete results to announce. And so, his briefings and news conferences are usually bland and generalized, with few specifics divulged.  In Lisbon, at the end of the Presi-dent's European trip, Mr. Shultz was asked to sum up how Mr. Reagan did. ''In the most profound sense it has been a successful trip,'' he told reporters. ''And just speaking for myself as an individual in having taken part in many of these trips, and being a part of this one, it certainly has deepened my resepct for the President's ability to take on these deep and difficult issues.  ''He has done an absolutely great job.''  Mr. Shultz was then asked what would have to happen to make his own trip, which was about to begin, equally successful.  ''Oh, you know,'' he said, seemingly embarrassed by the question, ''I am Secretary of State. My trips aren't successful. I just talk to people.''  photo of George Shultz and Hosni Mubarak (AP) 
