20021111
 Rally to Turkey   By By Rosemary Righter, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 12, 2002  A crescent moon has risen over Ankara, for 80 years the Islamic world's mightiest bastion of secularism, and the world is hastening to admire it. The State Department, aware of the crucial role that Turkey will play in any action against Iraq, has hailed the "vibrancy" of Turkish democracy, and urged the European Union to roll out the welcome mat to the victorious Development and Justice (AK) party of professed ex-Islamists. Berlin has been more than polite; so has London, which shares America's esteem for Turkey's stalwart membership in NATO. And Brussels has done its embarrassed best to hint that Friday's outburst by former French President Giscard d'Estaing, who said that it would be the "end of the EU" if Turkey came in, was a blast from the past that could be quietly ignored.  Western governments need urgent answers and they will not get them before two critical decisions are taken. The first is whether finally, at next month's Copenhagen summit, to give in to Turkey's demands for a firm date to start negotiations on its entry into the EU. The second is Iraq; Turkey's cooperation will be needed and although Mr. [Erdogan] has said Turkey will support a U.S. attack on Iraq (if it has U.N. approval, a condition the new Security Council resolution may have met), the AK rank and file is vehemently opposed, as are most voters.  If Turkey were to drop its opposition to freestanding EU military operations at the forthcoming NATO summit, only to find the gates to Europe still barred at Copenhagen some weeks later, there would be fury in Ankara which could well make it markedly less cooperative in the Iraq campaign. The EU has always been myopic about Turkey, never seriously intending to be more than courteous about its ambitions to be part of Europe, never expecting that question to affect the trans-Atlantic relationship and never really sharing America's conviction of Turkey's pivotal importance in a turbulent region. The question has now come to a head at a time when the answer will become entwined with the larger trans-Atlantic dispute over dealing with Saddam's Iraq. There could hardly have been a more awkward moment for Turks to turn to a party rooted in Islam -- whatever Mr. Erdogan does with his resounding electoral victory.   
