19980313
 Theater: A `Sound' Revival   By By Donald Lyons, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 13, 1998  New York -- There are two Rodgers and Hammerstein musicals about a civilizing governess, a crusty father and performing children. The first, "The King and I," is a masterpiece; the second, "The Sound of Music," is a splendid entertainment. Back on Broadway, at the Martin Beck, for the first time since its initial run that began in 1959, the new "Sound of Music" echoes less the play, which starred Mary Martin, than the widely beloved 1965 movie, which starred Julie Andrews and opened up the story spectacularly.  As to spectacle, Alps and schlosses can't be represented on stage as impressively as on film, and this production's efforts to do so are but modestly successful. But the film's emotional qualities can be imitated: Young, lissome Rebecca Luker (she was Magnolia in the recent "Show Boat") brings to governess Maria a wide-eyed charm, a lovely voice and a rather shy manner that, while recalling Ms. Andrews's sugary perfection, add grace notes of frailty and tentativeness. Hers is a softer but no less lyrical Maria, and Michael Siberry's Captain von Trapp is likewise less frosty and savage than the film's Christopher Plummer.  But that's the peak: "The Sound of Music" lacks the solid emotional arc of "The King and I." Here, the governess and the dad wed (amid preposterously overblown religious kitsch) and escape, kids and all, over the Alps in the nick of time. This second act is much weaker than the first because what's at issue -- resistance to the Nazis -- is very weakly embodied in the music; "Edelweiss" is no "Marseillaise." Adding salt, though, to the later sections are Jan Maxwell as an elegant and likable femme fatale and Fred Applegate as a greedy impresario; both are classic, if watered-down second-banana roles and are given back two songs -- "How Can Love Survive?" and "No Way to Stop it" -- removed from the movie. (Also two songs added to the movie -- "I Have Confidence" and "Something Good" -- are retained here.) But if the story is unevenly satisfying, this is, under Susan H. Schulman's fresh and clear direction, a "Sound of Music" lit throughout by a warm and infectious generosity of spirit.   
