19811105
LOS ANGELES, Nov. 4— Prosecutors said today that William Bonin, a sex offender, carefully planned the torture slayings of 12 young men and boys, and drove out on southern California freeways in a ''death van'' searching for hitchhikers.  Mr. Bonin is accused of masterminding the murders that have come to be known as the Freeway Killer case. A total of 44 men and boys have been found strangled in a similar manner since 1972, although the authorities say not all the cases may be related. A jury heard opening arguments by the prosecution in Mr. Bonin's murder trial today.  Mr. Bonin, paroled twice after serving time for sex crimes, is charged with 12 of the killings. James Michael Munro and Gregory Matthew Miley, both 19 years old, pleaded guilty in two of the slayings and agreed to testify against the 34-year-old truck driver from Downey.  Referring to Mr. Bonin, Deputy District Attorney Sterling Norris said, ''We will prove that when he got into his van and drove down southern California freeways, he was driving a death van for many young men and boys.'' Many Victims Were Hitchhikers  He said many victims were picked up as hitchhikers, and that their fate was decided as soon as they got into the van. ''Mr. Bonin had decided they all would die, so there would be no one to go to the police,'' Mr. Norris said. ''He had a premeditated plan to pick up young men and to sodomize them before taking their lives, regardless of their sexual preferences.''  The prosecutor asserted that the victims were ''tied up like hogs'' and gagged, and that a ligature such as a wire was twisted around their necks to ''choke the life out of them.''  As Mr. Norris recounted a list of tortures that he said the victims had suffered, Mr. Bonin and the jurors sat quietly, without any visible reaction.  Mr. Norris said he expected the trial to take four months. Co-Defendents Changed Pleas  Mr. Munro and Mr. Miley testified yesterday that they had changed their earlier pleas of not guilty after they learned that Mr. Bonin had furnished officials with information implicating them in some of the killings.  Defense attorneys tried to get the case against Mr. Bonin thrown out on the ground that the prosecution violated an agreement not to use the information against him. On a tape of the agreement, made Dec. 17, 1980, Mr. Bonin is heard agreeing to discuss the crimes in a bid to avoid the death penalty.  Judge William Keene of Superior Court denied the defense motion. In addition to the 12 murder counts, Mr. Bonin is charged with 11 counts of robbery and one of sodomy. Mr. Munro pleaded guilty to second-degree murder in the death of Stephen Jay Wells, 18, of Downey. Mr. Miley pleaded guilty to first-degree murder in the death of Charles Miranda, 15, of Bell Gardens. Both victims are among the 12 that Mr. Bonin is charged with killing.  Because of their plea bargains, Mr. Munro and Mr. Miley will not face the death penalty, but could receive life sentences. 
