20050911
 Moving the Market: General Re CEO Gets Wells Notice From SEC; Agency Informs Brandon Of a Possible Civil Action In Securities-Law Inquiry   By Karen Richardson and Gregory Zuckerman, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 12, 2005  Mr. [Joseph Brandon] received notice of the potential action against him in a Wells notice Thursday from the Securities and Exchange Commission, which also may seek to remove Mr. Brandon from his post at General Re, whose dealings with AIG are at the center of the SEC's actions.  Mr. Brandon, based in Stamford, Conn., didn't return calls Friday, and an assistant referred calls to Berkshire headquarters in Omaha, Neb. Debbie Bosanek, a Berkshire spokeswoman and assistant to Mr. [Warren Buffett], said she had no comment beyond what was already in the news release. Mr. Buffett wasn't available. Mr. Graham, reached at his Stamford office, declined to comment, and a lawyer representing Mr. [Christopher Garand] didn't return a call Friday afternoon.  Investigators have focused on a series of conversations between Messrs. Brandon and Buffett in which Mr. Buffett asked Mr. Brandon about General Re's accounting for the AIG deal, people close to the situation have said.  Mr. [Joseph Brandon] received notice of the potential action against him in a Wells notice Thursday from the Securities and Exchange Commission, which also may seek to remove Mr. Brandon from his post at General Re, whose dealings with AIG are at the center of the SEC's actions.  Mr. Brandon, based in Stamford, Conn., didn't return calls Friday, and an assistant referred calls to Berkshire headquarters in Omaha, Neb. Debbie Bosanek, a Berkshire spokeswoman and assistant to Mr. [Warren Buffett], said she had no comment beyond what was already in the news release. Mr. Buffett wasn't available. Mr. Graham, reached at his Stamford office, declined to comment, and a lawyer representing Mr. [Christopher Garand] didn't return a call Friday afternoon.  Investigators have focused on a series of conversations between Messrs. Brandon and Buffett in which Mr. Buffett asked Mr. Brandon about General Re's accounting for the AIG deal, people close to the situation have said.   
