19810521
SAN FRANCISCO, May 20— They had to go 10 innings to do it, but the New York Mets finally ended their nine-game losing streak today when they defeated the San Francisco Giants, 4-3.  ''They showed guts,'' said Joe Torre, the manager of the Mets, who has been defending his team and his job lately. ''They knew the son of a gun had to end. But it's not easy to win an extra-inning game on the road, not the way they've been playing.''  He laughed a hollow laugh, and added: ''I'm not sure I'd rather be managing or testing bullet-proof vests.'' Twice, the Mets took the lead behind the pitching of Greg Harris, a rookie making his debut in the big leagues; twice, they surrendered it. Dave Kingman even hit his first home run in 18 days. And Neil Allen and Jeff Reardon, the aces of the bullpen, both pitched in the late innings in a desperate effort not to let this one slip away. Trevino's Fly Scores Run  Then, in the top of the 10th, Lee Mazzilli led off with a walk from Greg Minton, the Giants' best relief pitcher, who had achieved seven victories and one save in his last 12 games. Wally Backman struck out trying to bunt. But Joel Youngblood singled to deep shortstop, Kingman singled to center and the bases were loaded.  Finally, Alex Trevino hit a sacrifice fly to center field, Mazzilli scored and the Mets took the lead for the third time on a windy afternoon in Candlestick Park. They still were not safe, though. The Giants got two singles with two down in the bottom of the 10th before Reardon retired Jerry Martin on a line drive to left field. And for the first time since a week ago last Saturday, the Mets had won.  It was only their ninth victory in 33 games this season, Mazzilli and Kingman were still hitting around .200, and they still stood in fifth place in the National League's East. But the Mets were free from a losing streak that had plunged the team into its worst start ever.  ''They're like kids now,'' Torre said, drawing on one of his long, black cigars. ''Psychologically, it takes the weight off everybody's shoulders. Rusty Staub waited for me in the runway after the game, and he was laughing out loud because he knew what I'd been through. At least, we've got that monkey off our backs.''  The Mets began the day with Harris pitching, only 48 hours after he had been called up from the International League. He is a 25-year-old Californian, and he pitched six innings of four-hit ball before a blister on his finger prompted Torre to start telephoning the bullpen. Mets Take Early Lead  But before Harris had pitched a ball in the big leagues, the Mets treated him to a 2-0 lead off Tom Griffin, who was pitching for Vida Blue, idled by a sore left arm.  Backman singled with one down, and Joel Youngblood bounced a double over third base down the line. Only three umpires were working because Harry Wendelstedt was absent with an ear infection, and none was positioned at third base. The home-plate umpire, Ed Montague, ruled it a fair ball, and the Giants lost an argument and a run. Then Griffin threw a wild pitch, sending Youngblood to third, and he scored when Kingman grounded out to deep shortstop.  When the inning ended, Darrell Evans got into a violent argument with the plate umpire and was thrown out of the game after being subdued by Don Buford, one of the Giants' coaches. So now the Giants had also lost their third baseman.  But they got one run back in the third on a two-out single by Joe Morgan and a double by Dave Bergman. And in the third, Larry Herndon cleared the left-field fence, and Harris's lead was gone.  In the sixth, though, Kingman hit a 1-and-2 pitch high past the left-field fence for his first home run since May 2, and the Mets were back in front, 3-2. But not for long. In the seventh, Torre entrusted the lead to Allen, who promptly lost it on a single by Milt May, a bunt and a pinch-hit single by Rennie Stennett.  In the ninth, it was Reardon's turn, and he pitched with a slightly tight shoulder. The Giants got the winning run on second base with Jim Wohlford pinch-hitting, but Reardon struck him out and then retired Joe Morgan.  And in the bottom of the 10th, after the Mets had taken the lead for the third time, Reardon got two outs, gave up two singles and then got Martin on the line drive that ended the game and the losing streak.  ''Sure, there was pressure,'' Reardon conceded in the Mets' first noisy locker room in weeks. ''They got two hits and I figured, 'Here we go again.' ''  Illustrations: photo of Frank Robinson 
