19990311
 World Watch   By Compiled by David I. Oyama, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 12, 1999  French communications and utilities company Vivendi said profit rose 37% last year to 1.12 billion euros ($1.02 billion), thanks to strong contributions from the consolidation of media unit Havas, from better waste-management earnings and from a swing to profitability at its telecommunications activities. The Paris company also said it is buying the industrial-services unit of U.S.-based Waste Management, and said it had entered into an agreement to sell 5.9 billion francs ($984.7 million) of real estate to Unibail of France. Vivendi didn't specify the price it paid for the Waste Management unit, which it saidhad annual sales of about $350 million.  Electra Investment Trust of Britain tempted shareholders with upfront cash and long-term promises to win their backing against a possible takeover bid from rival 3I Group. Electra offered to buy 40% of its shares at 786 pence ($12.78) each, a 14% premium to Wednesday's closing price. The offer, valued at GBP 544 million ($885 million), will be funded with a GBP 750 million syndicated loan. Electra shares rose 40 pence, or 5.8%, to 729.5 pence yesterday. But analysts think investors are gambling more on an imminent bid from 3I.  European Union countries reached a landmark agreement to overhaul farm subsidies, but the compromise faces a rocky ride at home and abroad. Under the pact, the EU will cut prices guaranteed to farmers by 20% for cereals and beef and 15% for dairy products. To cushion the impact, the ministers agreed to phase in the cuts. Farmers will also receive direct payments to compensate for the cuts. "This has made it possible for us to be in a strong position" for negotiations this year to liberalize world trade, the EU's agriculture commissioner said. But this is unlikely to be the case if the U.S. and other countries stick to demands for the phasing out of export subsidies for farm products. The package breaches spending limits backed by a majority of EU leaders, who must still approve it.   
