19811121
WASHINGTON, Nov. 20— The United States Steel Corporation said today that it had more than $5.61 billion available for its proposed acquisition of the Marathon Oil Company, consisting of $3.01 billion in commitments from various American and foreign banks and $2.6 billion on hand in cash or its equivalent.  The company, according to a joint filing by U.S. Steel and Marathon at the Securities and Exchange Commission today, would pay interest on borrowings in this country at the prime rate of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, now 16 1/2 percent, while Eurodollar borrowings would be at three-eights of a percentage point over the London interbank offered rate (Libor).  These resources appeared to be sufficient for the acquisition of Marathon under an agreement that both companies announced Thursday. The cost to U.S. Steel of its bid for Marathon was put at a total of $6.3 billion.  United States Steel's $3.01 billion in credit lines include $2 billion to be made available under a revolving credit signed on Sept. 17 with 23 banks led by Lloyds Bank International Ltd., the Chemical Bank and Citibank. After September 1985, the interest rate would be prime plus a quarter point or Libor plus a half point.  U.S. Steel also entered into a second agreement with 16 of the 23 banks for $337 million in credit. And it has one-year lines of credit from two banks in the group for $200 million from each bank, along with a $100 million line of credit from still another bank in the group. The filing said that U.S. Steel also had $173 million in unused credits that it maintained to finance its normal business activities.  The steelmaker said in the filing that it might also sell mediumand long-term debt issues to finance the takeover. Meanwhile, Marathon's initial suitor, the Mobil Corporation, appeared to have lost in one of its efforts to take control of Marathon against the will of the Ohio-based oil company. F.T.C. Agreement Sought  Mobil has sought from the Federal Trade Commission an agreement under which Mobil would acquire Marathon but would maintain it as a separate entity for six months while the F.T.C. continued its study of antitrust issues involved in the merger. Such a move would permit Mobil to go ahead with its tender offer before resolution of the antitrust issue.  But an F.T.C. official declared today that it was unlikely that Mobil's proposal would ever be approved. ''It was never signed,'' he asserted, and ''I would guess there wouldn't be a majority'' to be mustered for it.  If Mobil is unable to acquire Marathon, oil industry sources say it might soon turn its attention to the Southland Royalty Company, an oil concern half Marathon's size. Southland Royalty closed today on the New York Stock Exchange at $27.75, up $2.875.  In another development, Sedco Inc., an offshore drilling contractor that holds a 7.7 percent stake in Marathon, said from its Dallas headdquarters that it would tender its approximately 4.5 million shares to U.S. Steel, ''barring some unforeseen change of circumstances.'' Sedco is Marathon's largest single shareholder.  Illustrations: photo of Representative Clarence Brown of Ohio 
