19980420
 Clinton's Classroom Quotas   By By Jessica Gavora, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 21, 1998  Usually coy about favoring quotas, the administration in this case is openly insisting upon them. The effort represents an enormous expansion of federal power under Title IX, an amendment to the 1964 Civil Rights Act passed in 1972. Originally conceived simply as a guarantee of equal access to education regardless of sex, the law has of late been used to force colleges to expand women's sports programs and cut back athletics for men. Last June at a White House ceremony celebrating Title IX's 25th anniversary, Mr. Clinton announced: "Every school and every education program that receives federal assistance in the entire country" -- that is, virtually all of them -- "must understand that complying with Title IX is not optional. It is the law and the law must be enforced."  Judging from the way Title IX has been enforced in college athletics, the inevitable result will be academic quotas. This conclusion stems from a court case called Cohen v. Brown, which concluded last year. Brown University had built an exemplary women's sports program, beginning in the early 1970s. But in 1991, facing a budget crunch, Brown cut off funding to four of its athletic programs -- two men's teams and two women's teams. A group of female athletes sued, arguing that because the student body was 51% female but only 38% of student athletes were female, the university was guilty of discrimination under Title IX. Federal district and appeals courts agreed, and last year the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear Brown's appeal.  Cohen v. Brown has had a devastating effect on collegiate athletics. Women simply don't turn out for competitive sports at the same rate as men, so schools meet their "gender equity" requirements by scrapping men's teams. Colleges have shut down hundreds of male sports. UCLA dropped its men's swimming program, which had produced 22 Olympic competitors. Boston University ended its 91-year-old Division I football program last year. Thirty-one colleges and universities dropped their men's golf teams in 1994-96, and 24 did away with men's wrestling during the same period. Overall, the number of men playing sports has declined by 10% during the past five years in institutions that belong to the National College Athletic Association.   
