19810530
WASHINGTON To wrap up its 30th-anniversary season, Arena Stage is offering audiences an admirably eclectic diet of theater. The company's main auditorium, the Arena, is occupied by a new production of ''God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater,'' the musical adaptation of Kurt Vonnegut's novel. In the small, 180-seat Old Vat Room, the first local production of David Mamet's ''American Buffalo'' is in unlikely repertory with the imported cabaret ''Banjo Dancing.'' And then, in the medium-sized Kreeger, one finds the exotic piece de resistance: ''Pantomime,'' a 1978 play by the Trinidadian writer Derek Walcott.  Through no fault of his own, Mr. Walcott's name has been all about the papers this month: He is one of the 21 ''geniuses'' who have just been awarded fat checks by Chicago's MacArthur Foundation. To New York audiences, Mr. Walcott is probably best known as the author of such plays as ''Dream on Monkey Mountain'' and ''Ti-Jean and His Brothers,'' which were staged by the Negro Ensemble Company and the Public Theater in the early 70's. Yet Mr. Walcott's best writing has always been as a poet (''The Star-Apple Kingdom''), and that judgment remains unaltered by ''Pantomime.'' For some reason, Mr. Walcott refuses to bring the same esthetic rigor to his playwriting that he does to his powerfully dense verse.  ''Pantomime'' looks a good two drafts away from completion. One hopes that Mr. Walcott may some day do the reshaping and polishing required, because there's a bracing play here - somewhere. ''Pantomime'' contains two potentially fascinating characters, an ironically conceived theatrical premise and some pungent observations about the postcolonial third world. Right now these assets are all but lost in a sea of ill-focused scenes that eventually trail off into sentimental babbling in Act II. At the Kreeger, the flaws are further accentuated by the often lackadaisical production assembled by the director Martin Fried.  The setting is a breeze-swept, seaside gazebo (well designed by Karl Eigsti) that belongs to a dilapidated tourist guest house in Tobago. The guest house is run by Harry Trewe, a broken-down British music-hall performer who has abandoned England forever to start life anew in the West Indies. The play's action concerned Harry's efforts to devise a small-scale music-hall entertainment, a pantomime, to amuse the vacationers who are scheduled to arrive at his establishment a few days hence. He enlists the aid of his black waiter, Jackson Phillip, to help improvise the show.  Harry's show, pointedly enough, is a burlesque version of ''Robinson Crusoe.'' As the men rehearse it, Mr. Walcott sets up a series of role-reversals that are endemic to two-character plays. Not only does Harry and Jackson's master-servant relationship soon go topsy-turvy, but so does the relationship of the characters in their fledgling pantomime: They trade the parts of Crusoe and Friday back and forth just as frequently as they usurp each other's identities in real life.  Through this worthy scheme, Mr. Walcott tries to provide a satirical paradigm of the rise and fall of British imperialism. Though there are scattered flashes of witty writing, there aren't enough of them to deliver on the play's intentions. The evening's comic bombshells, Pinteresque tensions and political statements never pay off as well as they might because they often seem idly inserted, almost as afterthoughts, into a blurry progression of repetitive farcical antics. The mock music-hall routines are far better than the horseplay that surrounds them, but they, too, could be more sharply honed. They're not nearly so scabrous as the double-edged vaudeville numbers John Osborne used to limn the decline of the British empire in ''The Entertainer.''  It's also unclear whether the playwright has a firm fix on the character of Harry. At once a seemingly well-meaning liberal, a mild racist and a near-suicide, this mad-dog Englishman changes his stripes so often that he finally lacks a center. He's too feeble a target to merit his employee's angry challenges, and he's too irritating to earn the audience sympathy that Mr. Walcott suddenly demands near the end of the play. Nor does Richard Bauer, who plays the part, offer much assistance. When this actor isn't drifting in and out of various bogus accents, he's frantically attempting to be cute. The more hysterically Mr. Bauer dithers about, pushing for laughs, the more mirthless his performance becomes. The first act isn't over before Harry has sunk like a stone.  As his antagonist, Avery Brooks is excellent. An agile, even charismatic performer, he's equally adept at playing cunning slave and imperious master, Friday and Crusoe. In a show full of sloppily staged physical business, he has the one bit that works: On his way to the bathroom, he treats Harry to a ditsy demonstration of the rituals of urination. Late in Act II, Mr. Brooks also gets to deliver a line that inadvertently sums up the entire evening. When he accuses Harry of ''making a molehill out of a mountain,'' one can't help but feel that Mr. Walcott has done exactly the same thing to his promising idea for a play. The Cast PANTOMIME, by Derek Walcott; directed by Martin Fried; setting by Karl Eigsti; costumes by Mary Ann Powell; lighting by William Minter; technical director, Henry R. Gorfein. Presented by the Arena Stage, Zelda Fichandler, producing director, and Thomas C. Fichandler, executive director. At Sixth Street S.W. and Maine Avenue, Washington. Harry Trewe .............................Richard Bauer Jackson Phillip ..........................Avery Brooks 
