19810505
WASHINGTON, May 4— For the first time since it began measuring the contents of cigarette smoke 14 years ago, the Federal Trade Commission today released figures showing the amount of carbon monoxide gas ingested by smokers of American-made cigarettes.  The commission had not previously tested for the gas, which is a product of combustion. Carbon monoxide has long been suspected as a cause of cardiovascular disease and other maladies common among smokers. However, lack of definitive information on the comparative carbon monoxide yield of different brands has hampered research efforts to find a link between the gas and various diseases.  Of the 187 domestic brands analyzed in the test, which began in late 1979, the brand showing the least carbon monoxide was Carlton king-size filters, followed by Benson & Hedges, Carlton Menthol and Tareyton's ultra-low-tar brand. The brand with the highest carbon monoxide content was Bull Durham, with 52 times as much carbon monoxide gas as the brand with the least.  Among the other brands with a very high content of carbon monoxide were More, the 120-millimeter brand; Newport 100's; Winston, and Camel. In some cases, as with Winston and Camel, the brands have recently been reformulated, possibly changing the amount of gas that would be released. More Low-Tar Brands  The F.T.C. study also found a significant increase in the number of low-tar and low-nicotine brands since it last reported test results in 1979. Of the 187 brands tested, 125 had no more than 15 milligrams of tar, up from 103 brands in 1979. Similarly, the number with no more than one milligram of nicotine was up to 111 from 101. In all, 176 brands were tested for the 1979 report.  Carbon monoxide binds with red blood cells, thus replacing vital oxygen in the blood. Smoking specialists have speculated that the gas might exacerbate heart and lung disorders, contribute to hardening of the arteries and slow fetal development in pregnant women who smoke.  The last Surgeon General's report on smoking, issued in January, stated that ''a body of evidence has linked carbon monoxide directly to disease states and to early end points that might be predictive of disease.''  The new tests show that carbon monoxide levels vary enormously among brands and that brands low in tar and nicotine also tend to be low in the gas. These lower tar and nicotine levels have been achieved in part by reducing the tobacco content of cigarettes and replacing it with inert fillers. This presumably has also reduced the combustion that yields the carbon monoxide. Cigarettes Bought Around U.S.  The carbon monoxide level was tested by a machine that automatically smokes the cigarettes to a uniform butt size. The cigarettes were purchased at 50 retail outlets around the country in October and November of 1979. Since then many brands have been reformulated.  The trade commission did not specify a ''safe'' level of carbon monoxide. In his January report, Dr. Julius B. Richmond, then Surgeon General, while urging all smokers to quit, said that low-tar and lownicotine brands did appear to be somewhat less dangerous than other cigarettes.  The 15 domestic brands ranked lowest by the trade commission in the number of milligrams of carbon monoxide released per cigarette are these:  Carlton, king size (hard pack), 0.5 milligrams; Benson & Hedges, regular, 1.0; Carlton, king-size menthol, 1.0; Tareyton ultra-lowtar, king-size, menthol, 1.0; Carlton, king size, 2.0; Now, king size (hard pack), 3.0; Now, king size, menthol (hard pack), 3.0; Now, king size, menthol, 3.0; Now, king size, 3.0; Triumph, king size, menthol, 3.0; Decade, king size, menthol, 3.0; Kent III, king size, 4.0; Decade, king size, 4.0; Triumph, king size, 4.0; Doral II, king size, 4.0.  Copies of the latest F.T.C. report, titled ''Report of 'Tar,' Nicotine and Carbon Monoxide Content of the Smoke of 187 Varieties of Cigarettes,'' are available without charge from the Public Reference Branch, Room 130, Federal Trade Commission, 6th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20580. 
