19810602
To the Editor:  President Reagan's proposed cuts in Federal spending on alcoholism and drug abuse through the National Institute of Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse and the National Institute of Drug Abuse amount to $85,480,000 in 1981 and $239,647,000 in 1982. In 1982, both agencies will have less than one-quarter or their 1980 level of support.  he vast social costs of alcoholism to the nation have been estimated to exceed $60 billion. Substance abuse is the nation's number one public health problem and affects all segments of society. The disadvantaged groups are hit the hardest. Federal programs have been successful in increasing the availability of treatment and prevention resources and in spurring research into areas long neglected by medicine and psychiatry.  Under Reagan's block-grant proposal to the states, it is likely that alcoholism and substance abuse will not get the priority focus that is needed. In the area of the addictions, the alcohol and tobacco industry spend billions to keep the nation's attention focused on consumption of substance as a means of solving problems, and exert powerful pressures through lobbies in government. These industries have not made major contributions to treatment or research, and they probably will not unless specifically taxed to do so.  A national program could be modeled on Governor Carey's proposal for a New York State tax on alcohol to be used for alcohol and drug programs.  As in other areas affecting social and health-related programs, the proposed Federal cutbacks take a shortsighted view and ignore the interests of a large group of Americans and their families who are directly affected. Research indicates that treatment of the addictions is cost-effective and an increase in attention to prevention of illness has become a national priority. Once the treatment, research and prevention programs are decimated, it will take years to rebuild quality programs and train qualified personnel to return to the field.  There is no such thing as ''benign neglect'' when it comes to a Federal program on the addictions. RICHARD J. FRANCES, M.D. White Plains, May 15, 1981 The writer is Alcohol Treatment Service director at the Westchester Division of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. 
