20010805
 World Watch   By Compiled by Lily H. Li, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 6, 2001  Directors of Renong have recommended that its shareholders accept the government's offer to acquire its stake in construction company United Engineers Malaysia. The conglomerate said it will convene a shareholders meeting to vote on the recommendation. Renong owns 37.9% of UEM, while UEM holds about 31.03% in Renong. If successful, Kuala Lumpur's planned general offer for UEM will result in industrialist Halim Saad's losing control of the Renong-UEM group, which owns banks, toll roads, real estate, and gas and oil fields, among other things. Mr. Halim controls the group through his 16.5% interest in Renong. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad dismissed speculation that Mr. Halim was under investigation by Malaysia's regulatory authorities.  Germany's Siemens has agreed to sell its Mannesmann Sachs unit, an automotive-components maker, to ZF Friedrichshafen for an undisclosed sum. Pending approval by the cartel office and the supervisory board of Atecs Mannesmann, ZF will take over Sachs on Oct. 1. Sachs is one of five business units of Atecs Mannesmann, which is majority-owned by Siemens. Separately, after slashing more than 10,000 positions this year,Siemens said it is weighing further job reductions as it tries to squeeze additional savings from its troubled telecommunications division, which already has been hit with 5,500 job cuts this year.  Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said that together with his Brazilian counterpart, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, he would inaugurate a high-voltage line next Monday to supply cheap Venezuelan hydroelectric power to energy-starved northern Brazil. Mr. Chavez said there would be two ceremonies to put the long-delayed link into operation, one in the Venezuelan town of Santa Elena de Uairen and the other in the Brazilian city of Boa Vista. The cable is two years overdue. Separately, the Brazilian unit of Philips Electronics laid off 180 workers as sales of light bulbs dropped in the first two months of government-enforced electricity rationing.   
