19990520
 Bring Back the Rocket Boys   By By Homer H. Hickam Jr., The Wall Street Journal,  May 21, 1999  In the late 1950s and early 1960s, Americans crossed their fingers every time a rocket took off from Cape Canaveral. The results seemed almost random. Rockets fell out of the sky in great flaming chunks or sputtered out of sight, perhaps into space, more likely downrange to fall ignominiously into the Atlantic. We were never certain of what they were going to do, mainly because we didn't fully understand the technology involved. But by the mid-1960s, when Wernher von Braun's Saturn boosters started to fly, the U.S. had nearly perfected the art of making rockets, at least the ones that used liquid and solid chemical propellants. With these chemical rockets, we could easily operate in earth orbit, and even fly men to the moon.  Now, at the end of the century, it seems we've gone backwards, once more flying with our fingers crossed. In August 1998 a Titan 4, the Air Force's biggest rocket, blew up. A few days later, Boeing's new Delta 3 splattered itself across the Cape Canaveral sky. Things simmered for a while, but then, in quick succession beginning early last month, four more American rockets failed. Another Titan 4 made it off the pad, but its payload, a spy satellite, went into a useless orbit. This was followed by a Lockheed-Martin Athena 2 rocket, which didn't release its payload and fell back to earth. Then the Air Force, demonstrating tenacity if not proficiency, launched yet another Titan 4 a few days later, carrying a defense communications satellite into the wrong orbit. A couple of days after that, another Boeing Delta 3 also limped into the wrong part of space.  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has had no part in the recent failures. Its shuttle fleet has been flying successfully since the Challenger disaster in 1986. Still, I believe NASA is failing the country. It took the world just 42 years to go from the first powered flight to the jet age. In space, during the same amount of time, we've kept using the same old technology. This is deplorable. NASA today is in the hands of probably its most capable and visionary administrator ever, Dan Goldin. But Mr. Goldin has had his hands tied by the Clinton administration, including a very hands-on Al Gore, with a NASA policy that is sadly out of balance.   
