19820411
STEVEN RATTNER is a correspondent for The Times based in London. BY STEVEN RATTNER  N o meal in Britain is considered complete without a cheese course at the end, and no cheese board is complete - especially for a visitor - without a piece of Stilton, the nonpareil of British cheeses.  With its creamy texture and blue veining, Stilton offers a depth and a delicacy of flavor unmatched by other English cheeses. In taste, Stilton is smoother than other blue cheeses, and it is more gentle and less salty than Roquefort or Danish blue.  In Britain, this quality, along with its relatively high price, has won Stilton a reputation as an upper-class cheese. But its popularity has been growing steadily. In 1980, some 14.8 million pounds of it was consumed in Britain, a rise of 15 percent in two years.  The Stilton taste does not come easily. Each prime, full-sized Stilton of about 16 pounds requires 17 gallons of milk, a variety of other ingredients and four months or more of careful attention. As the only trademarked cheese in Britain, Stilton may be produced legally in just three counties - Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire.  The cozy, if somewhat grimy, Victorian town of Melton Mowbray in the Vale of the Belvoir (pronounced BEE-vuh) in Leicestershire has become known as the capital of Stilton country. After all, according to legend, Stilton was first made by Mrs. Paulet, a farmer's wife, in Wymondham, just south of there. The village of Stilton, 30 miles southeast of Melton Mowbray (and 65 miles north of London), is where Mrs. Paulet's brother-in-law, Cooper Thornhill, served the cheese to travelers stopping at his Bell Inn. Indeed, Daniel Defoe remarked in his ''Tour Through England and Wales'' in 1727 that he ''passed through Stilton, a town famous for cheese.''  For well over 300 years, Stilton cheese was made in farmhouses. Then, just before World War I, larger dairies and more modern methods began to evolve - although Stilton makers insist that the quality now is, if anything, better. Today, just nine dairies are licensed to produce Stilton, and three are in Melton Mowbray.  One of them, Tuxford and Tebbutt Ltd., may have begun life as early as 1780, and it is certain that by 1867 William Thorpe Tuxford was buying Stilton from farmhouse manufacturers in the region. The dairy began manufacturing its own Stilton around 1910.  Today, the concern is owned by Express Dairy Foods Ltd., one of Britain's major dairies, but Stilton is still produced in the trim, white factory hard by the center of town. At Tuxford and Tebbutt, visitors are welcome to inspect - as long as they don't mind the smell of sour milk.  The process begins with fresh milk, arriving daily from the countryside, which is pasteurized and then poured into flat, stainless-steel vats along with a starter culture and rennet. Curds form from the milk solids, and after several hours, the coagulated mass slides into large trays, where the watery whey is drained off.  After a night to firm up and develop some acidity, the thick mass, which then resembles scrambled eggs, is put through a mill, salt is added and the result is poured into containers where it sits for five days at 68 degrees. Then, the cheese is put in a cool holding room where it rests for about three months, being turned regularly. After about five weeks, it is pierced to allow air to enter to start the mold growing.  The fun part is sampling the maturing cheeses regularly by means of a small hand tool that pulls a core sample. The outer part is plugged back in so the cheese doesn't look violated. Visitors are usually allowed to taste.  ''Stilton is the only English cheese that is not cooked or pressed,'' said A. M. Urquhart, manager of Tuxford and Tebbutt. When deemed sufficiently mature, the large cheeses are loosely wrapped for shipping. Many Stilton dairies, including Tuxford and Tebbutt, also pack smaller sizes and produce a five-pound ''baby'' Stilton.  Although cheese may be purchased at many dairies, most customers prefer to buy their Stilton at a cheese store or supermarket. Among shops outside London that are noted for Stilton is Wells Stores in Streatley, a Thames-side village in Berkshire. In London, perhaps the two best places to buy Stilton are in the food halls of Harrods and at Paxton and Whitfield, one of those wonderful old English shops that reeks history. Founded in 1797, Paxton's has reposed - marbletopped counters and all - on fashionable Jermyn Street since 1886. Today, the shops sells some 500 pounds a week at $4.20 a pound or $37.50 for a half cheese weighing about nine pounds.  ''Every single Stilton is different from another,'' said Philip Rippon, the shop's general manager. ''We have one man who comes in and tastes 80 before he picks the one he wants.''  Paxton's probably wouldn't appreciate such diligence on the part of all its customers, but every purchaser of Stilton should follow a few simple guidelines. First, don't buy your Stilton as a pre-cut, prewrapped and tasteless wedge that has spent long periods in a refrigerator. And don't buy it in an earthenware pot; that cheese is not only often from rejects, but is mashed around to get it inside.  In buying a whole Stilton, to be sure it has been properly coddled, look for one that is as uniform as possible around the outside. The rind should never be cracked. Then ask the store for a sample, or to cut it in half. Inside, the more uniform the blue veining, the better the cheese. The cheese itself should not be white, but should have a golden or yellowish tint. The texture should be creamy and not overly dense.  As for the various dairies, that is mostly a matter of personal preference, and most cheese shops buy from only one manufacturer. Mr. Rippon believes that Long Clawson Dairy Ltd. produces the best Stilton, and that is the one he stocks. Harrods, which sells under its own name for $3.80 a pound and $30.50 a half Stilton, will not say where its cheese comes from.  Travelers are allowed to take up to $25 worth of Stilton into the United States, but the stores charge a great deal for shipping. A half Stilton shipped to America by air costs $79.55, for example. So the smart thing is probably to carry it back. The secrets of serving Stilton  Stilton cheese exhibits little variation in quality, although aficionados insist it is best around Christmas because the best milk is produced in July, when the grass is lush. The one time to use special care in buying Stilton is right after Christmas because many merchants, their stocks depleted, are forced to sell young cheese. Most manufacturers ship their Stiltons after they have aged four months or so, but experts believe six months is still better.  The two secrets in serving Stilton are not to refrigerate it and not to scoop it. When very cold, Stilton loses flavor that true believers say can never be regained. Ideally, it should be kept cool, in a larder or a wine cellar. If you must put it in the refrigerator, put it in the bottom with the vegetables and take it out at least two hours before serving. Once opened, a Stilton will usually keep for a couple of months.  Some people believe it sophisticated to scoop out the cheese, like a melon. That usually wastes about 60 percent of the cheese. The Stilton motto is, ''cut high, cut low, cut level'' - meaning cut wedges, as evenly and cleanly as possible. And never, never pour port wine into a Stilton. That only ruins two good things. S.R.  Illustrations: Map of England photos of cheesemakers 
