19811102
WASHINGTON, Nov. 1— Late tomorrow afternoon, hours before the limousines begin arriving at the North Portico, the White House will release a list of 96 guests who will attend the state dinner in honor of King Hussein and Queen Noor of Jordan.  If the list follows the past pattern, it will include well-known guests from big business, the arts, Congress, the news media and the Reagan Administration, as well as a few unfamiliar names of Reagan campaign supporters. But behind the simple list of names is an elaborate process of selection that involves repeated revisions by the top officials in the White House.  For the Reagan's eighth state dinner, and the first since the President's Awacs victory, it took the White House 11 drafts to come up with an acceptable guest list.  ''It's like cooking - a pinch of this, a pinch of that,'' said Mabel H. Brandon, the White House social secretary, who helped organize tomorrow's event in honor of the King and Queen of Jordan. ''But it's very organized, and there's the same pattern every time.'' 'You Start With Certain Givens'  Each of the 96 guests at the dinner may secretly be more fun at a party than Truman Capote. But the reason they received the thick, cream-colored White House invitations had less to do with their social skills than with what they have done, or may do, for the President or his guest of honor.  ''You start with certain givens,'' said Peter McCoy, who, as Nancy Reagan's chief of staff, oversees much of the planning for such events, ''protocol, foreign missions and dignitaries.''  That list, supplied by the State Department, includes in this case the 14 members of the official Jordanian delegation, as well as American diplomatic figures like Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. and Lenore Annenberg, the chief of protocol.  Max L. Friedersdorf, the President's chief lobbyist, also supplies a list of suggested names from Capitol Hill. These Senators and Congressmen are often those the President wants either to court or reward.  The East Wing also receives a list of names from Lyn Nofziger, the White House political director, and Michael K. Deaver and James A. Baker 3d, both top Presidential aides. ''It could be state chairmen, fund-raisers,'' said Mr. McCoy. ''Or it could be some people who have worked very hard and deserve to be included.'' Mrs. Reagan's 'Special People'  More names are supplied by the President's national security adviser, Richard V. Allen, by the White House press office and by the State Department, which often suggests heads of American corporations who do business in the guest-of-honor's country.  And finally, Mrs. Reagan has some ''special people'' whom she adds to the mix, says Mr. McCoy. ''Luminaries -rather than making it just a heavy political meeting, she might include a writer, historian, some personalities from one field or another.''  ''Then, we will sit and go over these lists with the social secretary, myself and Mrs. Reagan,'' he said. ''Then I discuss it with Messrs. Deaver, Baker and Meese. They make selections or deletions. And then out they go into the mails.''  The White House has embargoed the guest list for release tomorrow afternoon. But the names of a few guests have slipped out: Richard L. Gelb, chairman of the Bristol-Myers Company; Dr. William B. Macomber, president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art; William P. Rogers, former Secretary of State; Elton Rule, president of ABC-TV, and Paloma Picasso, daughter of Pablo Picasso and a Reagan family friend. Frank Sinatra, the singer, will also be there, both in his capacity as Hollywood celebrity and as a friend of the Reagans.  In addition, members of the family of Queen Noor, the former Lisa Halaby, have been invited, raising yet another problem: Should her parents, who are divorced, and the father remarried, be invited to the same event? ''They get along very well,'' said Mrs. Brandon, who added that there was ''no problem'' inviting them both. She added: ''Always, at every visit, there are little sensitive things that crop up.''  The worst time, she said, was the state dinner for Anwar el-Sadat in August. Because of the air controllers' strike, she said, several guests were stranded at the last minute, unable to travel to Washington.  ''That was wild,'' she said. ''We were just juggling. But you learn to juggle.'' 
