20011213
 Hollywood Journal: Making a Star Vehicle Run --- Why TV's `Reba' Is Something That `Ellen' Isn't -- a Hit; A Lesson for the Networks   By By Tom King, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 14, 2001  The success of "Reba," starring country singer Reba McEntire, is noteworthy not only because it is the first star-driven vehicle in years to click, but also because it illustrates an important evolution in the way the TV business measures success. Although the show airs on the WB, a much smaller network in terms of total viewers compared to the big four, it is a powerful outlet because of its demographics: Its core audience is young women, in the age bracket that many advertisers covet most. In that arena, "Reba" has done well: In its time period, it's the No. 1 show for female viewers 12 to 34.  While it's certainly no "Friends," in the increasingly niche-targeted world of network TV, "Reba" can still make big money. Because the seven-year-old WB doesn't have the national reach of the major networks, its ratings are far smaller. But "Reba" regularly pulls in four million to five million viewers, more than such cult favorites as "Dawson's Creek" or "Felicity." The show is the highest-rated program on Friday night for teens. By contrast, "The Ellen Show," the new CBS Friday show created for Ellen DeGeneres, usually pulls in more total viewers, but its audience is considerably older and less desirable to advertisers.  How did this happen? A combination of shrewd negotiating, an unusually willing star and lucky timing. Ms. McEntire, although hugely popular with the country crowd, didn't have the Hollywood aura that network execs go ga-ga over. Unlike most star deals, the network didn't commit to a half-season's worth of episodes, but just contracted her to make a pilot, with terms in place if it wanted the show. What's more, her salary was a fraction of the $100,000-per-episode fees Mr. [John Goodman] or Ms. [Geena Davis] commanded, industry executives say. (Ms. [Bette Midler] made about $250,000 per episode, according to execs.)   
