19811124
Lawyers for New York City asked a Federal judge yesterday to declare the City Council legally able to legislate in the coming weeks despite the judge's recent ruling that the Council's 10 atlarge members had been elected in an unconstitutional manner.  The lawyers said the declaration was needed to remove any possible doubts about the validity of laws passed by the Council while the judge's ruling was appealed to a higher court.  The judge, Edward R. Neaher of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, told the attorneys - Allen G. Schwartz, the city's Corporation Counsel, and Edward N. Costikyan, representing the Council - to draft a proposed order embodying their request, and said that he would consider signing it.  Judge Neaher added, however, that he wanted to obtain reaction to the proposed order from the plaintiffs in the suit that had led him to declare unconstitutional the method of filling 10 of the 43 Council seats. And the attorney for the plaintiffs, Kim Sperduto, indicated that he would not consent to any order that sought to validate the powers of the current Council for an ''inordinate'' period of time. City's Latest Effort  Yesterday's session before Judge Neaher was the latest effort to disentangle the Council from legal difficulties that have caused elections for the local legislature, originally scheduled for Nov. 3, to be postponed indefinitely.  Last month, the United States Justice Department rejected the city's plan for drawing new lines for the districts from which 33 of the Council members were to be elected. The department said the plan discriminated against black and Hispanic voters, and the Council is now trying to come up with an acceptable proposal.  Then, last Tuesday, Judge Neaher ruled that it was unconstitutional for the city to fill the Council's 10 at-large seats under the existing system of electing two members from each borough. The widely differing populations of the boroughs makes this system a violation of the one-person one-vote principle, he said.  The judge's ruling has led some officials to wonder whether any laws passed by the Council after the decision would be subject to court challenge on the ground that they had been enacted by an illegally constituted body. 
