19810923
The Boy Scouts of America, disturbed by declining membership in the last decade, announced new training programs yesterday for the 1980's to reflect youth's changing roles and interests in the modern family and community.  The scouting movement's new thrust involves 14 new or modified programs that will, among other things, lower the minimum age for admission to the Scouts, teach skills need ed in drastically altered family situat ions and move youngsters into more contemporary activities, s uch as computers.  At a news conference at the Marriott Hotels' Essex House on Central Park South, scouting executives emphasized that, while the changes were an outgrowth of declining membership, they did not represent any loosening of the 71-year-old organization's underlying goals and ideals of leadership and citizenship.  The number of youths between the ages of 8 and 20 enrolled in the movement at the end of 1980 totaled almost 3.2 million. In 1972, the figure was 4.9 million. New Programs Based on Survey  The Scout leaders said the new programs were based on a two-and-ahalf-year survey and study of 10,000 responses to 20,000 questionnaires sent to youths and adults. The survey showed that young Americans today are attracted by a broader, more sophisticated range of activities, without losing their traditional interests in camping and other outdoor pursuits.  Thomas C. MacAvoy, national president of the Boy Scouts of America and president and chief operating officer of the Corning Glass Works, outlined the new package of programs, called ''Foundations for Growth.'' The programs are to be tested in eight Middle Western cities.  A totally new program, he said, known as Tiger Cubs, will be open to 7-year-olds. The current minimum age to enter the Cub Scouts is 8. Mr. MacAvoy and other officials explained that a principal reason for lowering the entrance age was that the competition for youth participation in all sorts of activities is much greater than it used to be.  But more important than the younger age, he said, is that the program is designed for participation by the boy and an adult member of his family because ''we want the boy to grow closer to that adult member and to the rest of his family as well.'' The survey had noted that professionals in the Scout movement had underestimated ''the attraction of family activities to young people.'' Changes in Family Noted  Another new program is called ''Today's Family.'' Remarking on the growth in single-parent and two-job households, Mr. MacAvoy observed that the ''so-called traditional family with dad working and mom staying at home'' is said by one accounting to make up less that 20 percent of American families today.  This program, he said, will give boys the self-reliance skills they need to function when they are alone at home - ''everything from preparing a well-balanced meal to elementary maintenance and to caring for younger brothers and sisters.''  The third program discussed in some detail by Mr. MacAvoy concerned ''an enhancement or enrichment'' of the Bear Badge program for 9-year-olds. 
