20070105
 PURSUITS; Golf Journal: Crazy Drivers: The Clubs About to Shake Up Golf; Bizarre new designs could improve players' shots -- and many in the game worry that's a bad thing   By Newport, John Paul, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 6, 2007  For everyday players, of course, the notion of hitting a golf ball too far and too straight is absurd. Nevertheless, one of the U.S. Golf Association's chief mandates is to keep the game from becoming too easy -- to "protect the challenge," in the words of the USGA's senior technical director, Dick Rugge. Golf clubs and balls in this country must pass muster with the USGA. Manufacturers submit prototypes of new products for approval and not infrequently get them back stamped "rejected."  Until about 15 years ago, getting a club approved was usually a benign, gentlemanly affair because the technology wasn't rapidly evolving. But then advances in metallurgy, manufacturing processes and computer-aided-design techniques began allowing manufacturers to spin out much bigger clubheads (improving forgiveness on off-center hits) with much springier clubfaces (creating a kind of trampoline effect that propelled the ball farther) and cleverer designs that moved the clubheads' center of gravity around (improving both distance and forgiveness). Coupled with equally ingenious improvements in golf balls, these changes helped to dramatically boost driving distances on the PGA Tour (the test ground and bellwether for new equipment) and consequently triggered a storm of criticism of the USGA for failing to rein in the advances.  This time, however, the USGA was ready for the manufacturers. In late 2005, the association proposed a limit on MOI of 4,800 (grams per centimeter squared, if you must know). But at least one company, Nike, had a driver design in the works -- the SasQuatch Sumo2 -- with an MOI higher than that, of about 5,300. During the usual period that the USGA allows for manufacturers to comment on proposed regulations, Nike and other companies argued for a higher limit, and the USGA finally agreed last April to top out MOI at 5,900.   
