19810104
SANTA ROSA, Calif.— While members of the outside world were eating, drinking, being merry - and gaining weight - over the holidays, 28 persons inside a walled compound here were busy taking it off.  They were guests at the Weight Watchers Spa, the first and so far only weight loss facility licensed by Weight Watchers International, the weight loss organization. The spa, an hour's drive north of San Francisco, opened last June and features the Weight Watchers food plan along with an extensive (and optional) exercise program. Added 40 Pounds in Seven Months  ''I'm here because I put on 40 pounds in the last seven months by pigging out and letting myself go,'' said Linda Cirigliano, 31 years old, of Pasadena, Calif., managing editor of a dental journal. She arrived the day after Christmas, ''to try to undo some of the damage.''  A mother-daughter team, Mary Garton, 33, of New York, and Mary Garton, 68, of Santa Barbara, Calif., who usually travel together to a foreign country during Christmas week, this year decided to spend the week at the spa.  ''We had talked about going on a cruise,'' said Mrs. Garton, ''but all that food!'' Evalyne Bobba, 70, said she and her 57-year-old husband, Claude, came to the spa during the holidays from their home in Walnut Creek, Calif., ''because we just don't care much about Christmas at home - it's so depressing.''  By the end of the week, Mr. Bobba, the only Bobba with a weight problem, had gone from 236 to 229 pounds, a seven-pound weight loss. According to Maggie Kelley, a spa staff member, most of the guests lose anywhere from five to 10 pounds a week on the spa's diet of 1,000 to 1,200 calories a day.  The spa, which was formerly a Holiday Inn, is next to a delicatessen called the Cork 'N Bottle, where, legend has it, a woman spa guest once sneaked and devoured an entire cheesecake on the premises.  ''But that doesn't happen often,'' Mrs. Kelley insisted. ''Once they get behind these walls, they don't want to cheat. They've paid all that money, so why blow it?''  The meals seem more than ample. Christmas dinner, for example, included a cranberry juice cocktail, fruit compote, tomato bouillon, mushroom salad, broiled lamb chop with mint sauce, artichoke hearts stuffed with spinach and carrots, a stuffed baked potato and pineapple-berry parfait.  The spa menu also includes such dishes as steak Dijon, shrimps Santa Rosa, jambalaya, cornish hens with spiced black cherry sauce and chili con carne.  ''I'm not hungry here at all,'' said Toni Whytoshek, 33, of San Jose, Calif., a secretary whose weight when she checked in was so much that she couldn't be weighed on the spa's 350-pound scale. ''And I have no desire to eat junk food, either.''  Miss Whytoshek, who plans to stay at the spa a month, said her goal was to change her life style around, ''and not center it on food.'' She said one of the reasons she had gotten sidetracked was that she had been married to a 150-pound man who could ''eat and eat and eat, and never gain weight.'' Their marriage recently broke up, she said.  According to Mrs. Kelley, the average stay at the spa is one week, which costs $750 for single occupancy, and $625 for double occupancy. Most of the guests are between 35 and 55 years of age, she said, and most of them have between 10 and 30 pounds to lose. The majority of the guests are from California, she said, but during the holidays, they also came from Alaska, Arizona, New York, Michigan and Minnesota. Women usually outnumber men by about 4 to 1, she said. The spa's capacity is 200 guests.  A typical day at the spa goes something like this: 7:30 A.M., morning walk or run around the spa's jogging track; 8 A.M., breakfast; 9 A.M., stretch class; 10 A.M., dance exercise class; 11 A.M., aquatics class in the swimming pool; noon, lunch; 1 P.M., cooking demonstration; 2 P.M., lecture on foot reflexes; 3 P.M., body toning class; 4 P.M., yoga for relaxation class; 6 P.M., dinner; 8 P.M., feature film, 9 P.M. snack break. A Putting Green  The spa, whose executive director is a San Francisco physician and lawyer named Dr. Ernest Schwartz, also has two tennis courts, a putting green, a beauty salon and barber shop, and separate men's and women's wings with massage rooms, whirlpool baths, saunas and steam rooms.  Alice Grant, a former college gymnast who is now the spa's 100-pound athletic director, said she sometimes encountered hostility from the guests when she met them for the first time.  ''I usually break the ice by saying something like, 'Listen, I look like this because I work at it every day,'' she said. Miss Grant said that most of the guests start out their week saying they don't want to do any exercise. ''But by the end of the week, they all want to do it,'' she said, adding that she sent each guest home with an individual exercise program to be done in the home three times a week for 50 minutes.  ''When I first came here I couldn't get through the aerobic dance class,'' said Mary Garton. ''But today, five days later, I finally did.''  Miss Garton, when asked why she and her mother had chosen the Weight Watchers Spa rather than the better known Golden Door and La Costa spas, which are also in California, replied: ''Here, when you stand around hanging out of your leotard, you don't feel so selfconscious as you would in one of those status-y places.''  Several of the guests looked as though they didn't need to lose any weight. One of them was Robin Williams, 28, a 5-foot 2-inch, 115-pound high school counselor from Merced, Calif.  ''My thing isn't to lose weight as much as it is to get in touch with my body and myself,'' she said. ''But at the same time, I wouldn't mind losing about 9 pounds.''  Illustrations: Photo of an excercise class Photo of a woman eating 
