20011113
 Theater: Septuagenarians Storm Broadway --- Ms. Stritch Looks Back on a Life Of Liquor and Erotic Naivete; Mr. Simon's Polish Tea Room   By By Barbara D. Phillips, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 14, 2001  New York -- A GUTSY autobiography-with-music from Elaine Stritch, a Broadway baby now wowing 'em downtown at age 76. A revival of Clare Booth Luce's "The Women," whose protagonists bare their jungle-red claws, their undies -- and in one case all -- less than two months shy of the comedy's 65th birthday. And 74-year-old playwright Neil Simon's latest ladling of comfort food to his most loyal customers: "45 Seconds From Broadway," a funny but less-than-filling valentine to a humble coffee shop and the folks who have made it their Theater District home. All opened in the past week.  The best of the bunch is the Public Theater's "Elaine Stritch at Liberty," an introspective one-woman retrospective by the gravel-voiced vet, "constructed by John Lahr and reconstructed by Elaine Stritch." The leggy actress, dressed in black tights, pumps and a white man-tailored shirt, shares a bare stage with only one prop -- an equally long-limbed chair. But the lighting, by Jules Fisher and Peggy Eisenhauer, evokes many moods, as does the pit orchestra accompanying Ms. Stritch on numbers that she brought to past stages or that evoke past stages of her life. That's all she -- and we -- need.  Ms. Stritch has long been the voice and face of experience. At age 20, she tells us, she looked 40 and understudied Ethel Merman in "Call Me Madam." Her rapid-fire recollection of the time she juggled those backup duties on Broadway with her supporting role (singing "Zip") in the revival of "Pal Joey" -- in tryouts in New Haven -- is a hoot. In her 40s, her raspy, acid-etched rendition of "The Ladies Who Lunch" captured the essence of Stephen Sondheim's brittle, bitter urbanity. And she is perfection in the bile- and gin-soaked works of Edward Albee. But her life, we learn, has been a piquant mixture of innocence and experience.   
