19820407
ELMIRA HEIGHTS, N.Y., April 6— Dr. Constantin Frank, wearing a blue suit with a vest, was grasping a bottle of wine and calling for a corkscrew as the dining room at Pierce's 1894 restaurant filled and the noise level rose. All around him were winemakers, restaurateurs and other oenophiles. As usual Dr. Frank was the center of attention.  He is the president of Vinifera Wine Cellars, a winery on the shore of Keuka Lake near Hammondsport, and at the age of 82 he is the dean of New York winemakers. After emigrating to the United States from the Soviet Union 30 years ago, he found his way to the Finger Lakes region and began making wines from European grape varieties, proving that it could be done in New York State.  ''I want you to try this,'' he said in his heavy Russian accent as he uncorked and poured from the bottle in his hand. A spicy cabernet sauvignon 1978 made from grapes grown in his own vineyard, it was a red wine of medium body and light flavor intensity that was a rarity in the year it was produced because so few New York winemakers dared to cultivate the cabernet sauvignon.  Now cabernet, riesling, chardonnay and other European varietals are being made by a number of New York wineries, thanks partly to Dr. Frank's persistent efforts, and some of them were included in the third annual New York State barrel-tasting dinner at Pierce's Monday night.  The tasting demonstrated that California is not the only state producing good wines from European grapes and that New York growers are learning to overcome the adverse weather that often interferes with winemaking.  As if to underscore the constant threat posed by the capricious weather, an extraordinary April blizzard rattled the restaurant's windows during the sumptuous 10-course dinner with 19 wines served to Dr. Frank and the 130 others present. Partly because of an extensive wine list, Pierce's has become an upstate gathering place for members of the New York wine trade and other enthusiasts.  Praise for Dr. Frank's cabernet sauvignon was not universal. Some of the tasters found it acidic and others felt that it lacked the body and flavor intensity of typical California cabernets. ''I think it's a flawed wine,'' said Chris Johnson, winemaker at Wagner Vineyards, whose chardonnays are among the best in the state.  But the style of the better wines produced in New York tends to be lighter-bodied and less intense than the California style, reflecting more rigorous weather conditions. The rieslings are less rich and more austere, the chardonnays tend to be more elegant and the red wines often lack the body and depth of wines made in California from the same grape varieties.  For the sake of comparison, a bottle of Dry Creek cabernet sauvignon 1978 from California was uncorked and tasted side by side with the Dr. Frank's cabernet from the same vintage. The Dry Creek was a bigger, more intense wine, but the difference was mainly one of style, and some consumers would prefer the lightness of Dr. Frank's version.  It was served with a roast stuffed saddle of veal, along with the only other red wines among the 19 in the tasting. These were a flavorful dechaunac 1980 from Wagner and a full-bodied, spicy wine from Benmarl Vineyards labeled ''Red Wine Cuvee 37-B.'' The dechaunac is a popular French-American hybrid grape more easily cultivated in New York than the cabernet. The composition of the Benmarl wine was not known, but it is also believed to have been made from hybrid grapes.  All the wines served had been chosen during a blind tasting held earlier in the year after wineries all over the state submitted entries. Those that were included could be considered the best the state had to offer from recent vintages. In general they were far superior to the wines made from native grapes, such as the Concord, with which New York has traditionally been identified. The enormous production of Concord and other native grapes that thrive despite the weather led to a curious word to describe them - ''foxy'' - and to a reputation for sweetness and inelegant flavor.  In the last decade New York wineries have focused on hybrid and European grapes, and now many New York wines display great style and elegance. The 1980 vintage was considered the best since World War II and the 1981 has surpassed expectations.  Well-made whites from Lucas Vineyard, Gold Seal, Wagner, Vinifera, Hargrave Vineyard and Great Western, all from the 1981 vintage, vied with the 1980 whites of Glenora Wine Cellars, Heron Hill, Casa Larga Vineyards, Planes Vineyard, McGregor Vineyard and Chateau Esperanza. Many of these wineries did not even exist a decade ago and are responsible for the reputation for quality that New York wines are developing.  Illustrations: photo of Dr. Constantin Frank 
