19811206
.6,0,165.6,2,478.4,0BOSTON - Though public attention has focused on the MX missile and the B-1 bomber in President Reagan's comprehensive plan for developing our strategic nuclear forces, in the long run neither is likely to have as great an effect on our national security as his decision to deploy cruise missiles.  For a variety of reasons, cruise missiles will substantially damage efforts to achieve effective nuclear-arms control, thus undermining rather than enhancing America's national security.  The United States plans to deploy more than 3,000 air-launched cruise missiles both on B-52's beginning in 1982 and on B-1's in subsequent years; several hundred sea-launched cruise missiles on submarines beginning in 1984; and 464 ground-launched cruise missiles in Europe beginning in 1983.  All three types of cruise missiles are formidable weapons. They are small and mobile, self-guided in flight, and could be highly accurate. Ironically, some of these characteristics spell disaster for arms control.  The size and mobility of the cruise missile make verification of the numbers and locations of these weapons virtually impossible. Because the cruise missile is only about 20 feet long, it can be easily hidden from satellite surveillance and other existing ''national technical means'' by which each superpower successfully counts the other's missiles and launch silos, bombers, and submarines.  Cruise missiles could be secreted in internally modified commercial aircraft, or in almost any vehicle, for example an aircraft carrier or a truck. A single wide-bodied commercial jet could carry and launch several dozen.  Even though the United States may not plan to deploy cruise missiles this way, the mere potential for doing so is destructive to arms control. There may be no practical way, once deployment has begun, to assure the Soviet Union that we won't create a secret cruise-missile force. When the Soviet Union responded by building its own cruise missiles, we would similarly be left in doubt.  Even assuming that both sides could be satisfied that cruise missiles would only be carried in specified types of vehicles, such as submarines, problems would remain. How could it be verified which submarines carried cruise missiles and which did not? Because you might not be able to tell whether a submarine had cruise missiles by examining it from the outside, on-site inspection would be necessary. The unpleasant alternative would be to count all submarines as cruise-missile carriers, thus inflating the number of nuclear weapons assumed and permitted under any future arms-control agreement.  If for no other reason, the enormous cost of weapons such as the MX and the B-1 ensure that they will be seriously debated. In contrast, the advertised low cost and strategic advantages of cruise missiles present them as expedient alternatives, thus creating such anomalies as aggressive advocacy, by proponents of nuclear-arms control, of cruise-missile deployment on B-52's as an alternative to the B-1. The number of cruise missiles deployed by the superpowers is thus likely to be pushed upward in coming years, and proliferation to other nations made more likely.  It is not difficult to envision a world in this century in which cruise missiles with nuclear warheads abound on all oceans and continents, in which no country is confident of their whereabouts, and, indeed, in which there is no certain way of identifying which country has launched a cruise missile on its winding way to a target thousands of miles distant.  Cruise missiles have been a subject of strategic nuclear arms talks, however, since the mid-1970's. Why then are we about to deploy weapons that will ultimately prove so inimical to our national security? In large part, it is because of the desires of military strategists and defense contractors to take immediate advantage of our temporary superiority in cruise-missile technology. We are thus repeating the mistake made in the 1970's when we rejected the opportunity to ban MIRV's (multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicles) because we had them and the Soviet Union did not. Today, Soviet MIRV technology contributes substantially to the theoretical vulnerability of our land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles.  It is time to reassess our long-term interests. If we deploy cruise missiles now, we will be tying the hands of our nuclear-arms negotiators in the future; they will not be able to negotiate away a quantity that the Soviet Union cannot measure. The Soviet Union will then deploy its own cruise missiles, thereby completing destruction of the underpinning of nuclear-arms-control agreements: the capacity for mutual verification.  The Soviet Union has not yet developed and tested cruise missiles, and the United States has neither produced them in large numbers nor deployed them. Mutual verification of a ban on production and deployment is still possible. It is of the utmost importance that we do not allow this rapidly evaporating opportunity to pass. --------------------------------------------------------------------- Alan B. Sherr is president of the Lawyers Alliance for Nuclear Arms Control, a national organization. 
