19810906
WOMEN'S WORK By Anne Tolstoi Wallach. 419 pp. New York: New American Library. $13.95 By CHARLOTTE CURTIS  ANNE TOLSTOI WALLACH has a strange view of women. If she is to be believed, they are hopelessly self-centered, thoughtless,conniving, greedy and vulgar creatures who spend their working lives sobbing away their mascara because they can't have their own way.  Supposedly, this was a male chauvinist view of women. Whether that is true or not, neither Mrs. Wallach's characters nor her story have much connection with reality, and her view comes as an anachronistic and unpleasant surprise in a book that purports to show us how real women in the advertising business do and do not get ahead.  A n intellig ent and disciplined heroine who does her job well is probably too much (and too simplistic) to ask in a novel so obviouslyaimed at the trash market. Domina Drexler, the heroine, is as dim and unbelieva ble a person as one is likely to encounter between hard covers. Or an y other covers, for that matter. She is vice-president and creative director of a big advertising agency. What she wants is to be a senio r vice president and a member of the agency's board of directors. Wh en she doesn't get the job (and she probably does deserve it), she dissolves in tears. She even ''allowed herself, for once, to weep with frustration and rage.''  Well, once maybe. But once is not enough. Domina cries, and cries again. Whole chapters seem to be devoted to her tears and the precise way they spill out of her eyes, run down her cheeks, sinking first into a patterned sweater, then a dress, ''melting into her hands'' and wetting her bed. Between bouts of weeping, a model, a fashion stylist, an art director, a headhunter's assistant and maybe even a man or two sob up a storm and Domina either thinks about crying some more, drives her fingernails into her palms so she won't, or moans endlessly about being ''so damned controlled.'' What is odd, given this sort of emotional structure, is that she does not cry at her best friend's funeral.  On the way home from the funeral, however, Domina gets so angry with the lover/colleague who has disappointed her (and several other women) that she works herself up into yet another emotional wallow.. This one takes seven pages. After ''her fury expanded,'' she is first in a ''white-hot fury,'' then ''the rage bubbled up again,'' and finally - well, you know how it ends. She's sobbing again.  But it is Lolly, the headhunter's assistant, who has perhaps the most carefully elucidated cry: ''Her tears were spilling over, falling, spattering the paper place mat in front of her. The little teardrops sank slowly into the paper, making a pretty pattern ... bits of tears flying like pieces of her. ...'' And somewhat later, ''Her placemat was drying now, little puckers showing where her tears had fallen. The tears were drying inside her head, too,'' which is nosmall feat. ---------------------------------------------------------------------  Charlotte Curtis is the editor of the Op-Ed Page of The New York Times.  But not nearly so thrilling as the hyperbolic -reactions the characters routinely experience. ''Electric shock stabbed through Maran's forehead'' when that aging stylist sighted an older, even more successful competitor. ''Fireworks went off in (Domina's) head, fireworks that returned each time she chose a chair or a fabric.'' A trifle much, perhaps, but diverting in view of the plot, which turns as much on the correct day to have a fashion show and the high tension of not knowing whether the models' shoes will arrive on time as it does on Domina geting her man, the account she wants and her more important title.  Unfortunately, none of this succeeds in making the characters either interesting or glamorous, which, in real life, at least some advertising people are. Nor does it help much that the personae spend an inordinate amount of time on their clothes and the decoration of their offices and residences. Yet it does suggest why so little work gets done at the advertising agency, and why everyone is forever ''patting down'' Chanel suits, having his or her shoes shined, ''fluffing'' up her hair and thinking - in miles of interior dialogue - of extensive lists of possessions. That, and fixing the smudged mascara, is what these people do.  But there are other diversions. The grammar occasionally runs to ''nobody in the world but her would know.'' Sentences periodically end with prepositions and, in one instance, a proposition. Mrs. Wallach writes that Brady Gowin, Domina's boss, has a name like a palindrome when what she seems to mean is that his name is composed of two last names. And when the going gets too hopelessly banal, there are clumps of four-letter words and sexual escapades to embellish those arid places among the tears, crises and all that expensive furniture.  ''Women's Work'' is Mrs. Wallach's first novel. New American Library paid her $850,000 for her work, the largest advance ever for a first novel, and the book is a main selection of the Literary Guild and a selection of the Doubleday Book Club. Another $1,000 was set aside for an advertising campaign, including a l3-city publicity tour. Clearly, ''Women's Work'' is going to sell. And just as clearly, there is still a good, popular novel to be written about women in what the fly leaf refers to as ''the glamorous and ruthless world of advertising.''  Illustrations: Drawing 
