20040702
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Tastings: Beach Books With a Heady Bouquet; Two Tasty Summer Surprises From Our Bookshelves; Opposing Views of Parker   By Dorothy J. Gaiter and John Brecher, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 2, 2004  A central figure in Mr. [William Echikson]'s narrative is the powerful American wine critic Robert Parker. Mr. Parker is the focus of tremendous controversy in the wine world. Critics say he prefers wines that lack elegance and style, preferring an over-ripe, overly rich parody of wine. They decry the international "Parkerization" of wine. His admirers say that he has improved wines, especially in Bordeaux, by refusing to allow history and conventional wisdom to cloud his judgment of wines in which, they argue, thinness and lack of fruit are confused with subtlety.  Mr. Echikson's portrait of Mr. Parker is calmer and more balanced than most. While clearly an admirer of Mr. Parker and his support of the new wave, Mr. Echikson also examines at depth Mr. Parker's relationships with some of the brokers and winemaking consultants of Bordeaux, relationships that some people there say compromise Mr. Parker's objectivity. We'd feel better about the Parker material, however, if the top blurb on the back of the book wasn't from . . . Robert Parker.  "Garage wines are typically made by wealthy individuals who imitate artisanal wine -- as a public personal hobby. They're described as being intense, dark, small-production wines made with an artisanal attention to detail. Being dark and dramatic, of course, they appeal to Parker's 'overendowed' palate." He also sympathizes with those in Bordeaux who feel that the garagistes are not "the plucky Davy Crocketts they are so disingenuously made out to be. They are sly operators who have glommed onto the Parker system by carefully crafting 'hedonic' wines which the Master is bound to love." We'd feel better about the Parker material in this book, however, if Mr. [Lawrence Osborne] had made a more serious attempt to speak to Mr. Parker. The closest he comes is a bizarre scene in which he thinks he might have spotted Mr. Parker at a restaurant ("Huddled alone at a table by the window sat another rumpled, thickset American eating garrulously alone. How did I know he was a fellow citizen? For one thing, Europeans rarely eat with their mouths open, smacking their lips"). But he doesn't approach the lip-smacker and never aggressively tries to interview Mr. Parker.   
