20021105
 Outcasts From China's Feast --- Millions of Laid-Off Urban Workers Are Getting Angry   By By David Murphy, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 6, 2002  If that challenge isn't met, the result could be more frequent strikes and increasing social disorder. Workers with grievances are no longer just getting mad; they are organizing. For the first time in recent history, workers in the first half of this year launched a series of apparently coordinated strikes and demonstrations in several old industrial centers ranging from the northeast to the southwest. Analysts say that the protests petered out only because authorities were told to settle them quietly before they could mar the party congress. That tactic worked for a while, but new worker protests have flared in two northeastern provinces in the week leading up to the congress, according to the Hong Kong-based Information Center for Human Rights and Democracy.  In the early days of dismissals, it was relatively easy to find new jobs. No longer. The Development Research Centre, which is linked to the State Council, China's cabinet, puts urban unemployment at 10%, and warns it could rise to 15% in the next few years. The DRC and Asian Development Bank estimate that there are 37 million urban poor, 12% of the urban population. World Trade Organization membership and growing competition have brought new pressures. The employment situation is "very grim," Minister [Zhang Zuoji] told lawmakers, adding that, with population growth, the number of new entrants to China's work force will peak sometime between now and 2005.  The government responded with a mixture of iron fist -- smashing protests and arresting leaders -- and velvet glove -- short-term payoffs and rapidly expanding a basic welfare system. Twenty million people now receive the government-distributed Minimum Living Standard Allowance, up from 2.8 million in 1999. The allowance, given to households with an income below a locally set poverty line, varies in size -- in Shenyang, it is $36 a month. It is viewed as the last line of defense against urban poverty and will probably have to keep growing, particularly in the northeast wastelands, in a bid to keep some kind of lid on simmering unrest.   
