19820807
MIAMI IN the last 15 years there has been a virtual explosion in publications for the disabled. Lani Deauville, an assistant director of Florida's Office of Vocational Rehabilitation, credits the increase to the civil-rights and consumer movements.  ''It became obvious that the disabled were being discriminated against in employment and housing,'' said Miss Deauville, a quadriplegic since a diving accident in 1958. ''As jobs and transportation become more accessible, the disabled are coming out of the woodwork.''  Miss Deauville said she was getting 25 to 30 periodicals a week and that she believed there were 10 to 20 times that number in the United States.  Gini Laurie, editor of a yearly, The Rehabilitation Gazette, adds that since 1965, when the Government began subsidizing the college educations of the severely disabled, a pool of potential leaders among the handicapped has been growing. Also, as a result of the advances in medical technology that accompanied the Vietnam War, many who would have died of their injuries are surviving even if severely disabled.  In 1952, when 26-year-old Raymond C. Cheever was released from a hospital after a bout with poliomyelitis that left him without the use of his legs, he found that he did not even know where to get a wheelchair. So he and his wife, Grace, decided to start a publication ''to provide a means for disabled people to learn about products that were available but hard to find.''  The first 16-page issue of the quarterly, then called Polio Living, came out in the summer of 1956, relying on $15,000 scratched together from many sources. For the next few years Mr. Cheever, then an employee of an insurance agency, and his wife put out the publication at night. Today, having changed its name to Accent on Living in 1958 to reflect its widening concerns, the magazine contains 148 pages and has a staff of six full-time and four parttime employees.  Recent articles have dealt with planning a wheelchair vacation, divorce, pregnancy and child-rearing. Each issue includes at least one success story.  Because few towns have good medical-supply stores, said Mr. Cheever, the quarterly's most important mission is still information about hard-to-find products. As requests for information began to pour in, the Cheevers set up an information bank, Accent on Information, in 1970 to keep track of solutions to problems.  In 1974 a number of publications began to appear on topics too comprehensive to fit into Accent on Living. Accent Special Publications' list of available booklets now runs to 19 titles, 10 published in-house. The most popular booklet offers suggestions on how to make a home more accessible.  Like Accent on Living, The Rehabilitation Gazette was started because of an encounter with polio. Mrs. Laurie, its editor, lost two sisters and a brother to the disease, so when a severe epidemic hit Cleveland in 1949, she heard the call for volunteers to help in what became the regional respiratory polio center.  In 1958 she began a mimeographed newsletter ''to report how 'alumni' were coping at home, with attendants, children, hobbies, home adaptions, housekeeping, families, jobs, recreation, school and spouses - from their wheelchairs, rocking beds, chest pieces or iron lungs.'' The 1981 issue runs to 65 pages and circulates in 84 countries.  Paraplegia News, one of the oldest publications for the disabled, has recently been focusing on specific topics. In June, for example, it concentrated on the special needs of handicapped drivers.  The official magazine of the Paralyzed Veterans of America, Paraplegia News was started at the Bronx Veterans Hospital in 1946, predating its parent organization by a month. While it maintains strong ties with the organization, the publication has a broader mandate. The masthead states that it is published ''in the interest of and for the benefit of paraplegics, civilians and veterans, all over the world.''  From four pages of newsprint it has grown to a 70-page glossy monthly publication with a readership that is nearly 50 percent nonveteran.  The three magazines - Accent on Living, Parapleglia News and The Rehabilitation Gazette - represent the oldest and most established. In addition to other national magazines, with some concentrating on specific medical problems, there is a large if uncounted number of regional and local offset pamphlets. These include The Walkie Wheeler Newsletter, a monthly edited single-handed by Sol Zitter of Miami Beach; HandiNotes, also a monthly bulletin, put out by the Florida Space Coast Association of the Physically Handicapped, and Mainstream of San Diego. Kerry Gruson 
