19811103
PARKS WITHIN PARKS  The Charles Engelhard Courtyard in the American Wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 82d Street and Fifth Avenue, is a small park in itself, enclosed but giving an outdoor impression. It also overlooks Central Park, in which the museum is an enclave. One the western edge of the courtyard these days, through Nov. 29, is an exhibition, ''Art of the Olmsted Landscape,'' conceived by the Landmarks Preservation Commission, which guides you through more than 100 parks designed by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, the men who gave us Central Park.  The exhibition's profuse detail can be savored if not digested by the flaneur, who can gaze at photographs, drawings, maps, banners. The centerpiece is a large-scale model of Central Park according to the designers' orders in 1873, without the Metropolitan and other structures on it. Standing next to it, you see both the model and the real park outside, and the effect is striking.  The museum is open today from 10 A.M. to 8:45 P.M.; Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 to 4:45; Sundays, 11 to 4:45. Suggested admission: $3.50; students and over-65's, $1.75; under-12's, with adult, free. Information: 535-7710. MOONLIGHT BECOMES YOU  The Broadway Gypsy Festival, which comes to the Horn of Plenty, 91 Charles Street, corner of Bleecker (242-0636), is not an occasion for tambourine-rattling zigeuners intoning Romany chants. It is an event that will go on for four weeks, presenting performers from Broadway shows who go there Tuesdays through Thursdays at 11:30 P.M. to sing or dance or talk after their stage stints. Tonight, you can see Ned Peterson of ''My Fair Lady'' and Annie Joe Edwards of ''Ain't Misbehavin'.'' Tomorrow, Claude Teissier of ''Evita'' and Robin Boudreau of ''The Pirates of Penzance.''  These entertainments will take place in the Music Room, one of several enclaves in this unusual restaurant which operates on two levels. The place seems deceptively small in its Greenwich Street corner location, where a door leads into a small reception room. Downstairs is the main restaurant, dark but roomy and sleek. On street level, a greenhouse-sort of room is at the rear, often used for private parties but also often available for individual diners. To the right is the bar, a large room where one may perch in modern decor over a drink. Next to that is the Music Room, with tables and platform, effectively distant from the other chambers. Entertainment admission is $6, with no minimum. Main courses from $9.95 to $17.75; drinks from $2 to $4. FROM WISCONSIN  Robert La Follette Sr. was Wisconsin's Governor, its Senator, founder of the Middle West's Progressive movement and that party's 1924 candidate for President. ''Fighting Bob,'' a play about La Follette, was written by Tom Cole for the Milwaukee Repertory Theater, and the show was such a success touring Wisconsin last year that two of its actors, Paul Meacham and John P. Connolly, together with Bronson La Follette, the Senator's grandson, set about raising funds to get it to New York. Most of the $100,000 needed came from Wisconsin enthusiasts. The play, whose framework is a present-day history teacher's inquiry into La Follette's conduct, starts performances today at the Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street. Admission to previews: $10. Information: 254-4370. PANEL  Usually the evening is given over to readings at Books & Co., 939 Madison Avenue (737-1450), but tonight at 8, the session will be a roundtable, ''The Best American Short Stories 1981.'' Hortense Calisher will preside over a roundtable discussion with Walter Abish, Vincent G. Dethier, Andre Dubus, Elizabeth Hardwick, Bobbie Ann Mason, Amelia Mosely, whose stories are among those reckoned the best by the chairwoman. They will examine the influences in America today on short-story writers, particularly the effect of the ubiquitous university short-story writing courses. Admission: $2.50. There is standing room downstairs (the main room is one flight up, with seats), but the participants and audiences mingle in discussion after the program ends.  For Sports Today, see page B16. Richard F. Shepard  Illustrations: Photo of Eugene Anthony 
