19901002
 Souter's Progress: How Nominee Won In His Classic Clash With Capital's Culture --- New Hamshire Ascetic's Trip To U.S. Supreme Court Took Months of Study --- The Tip From Joseph Biden   By By David Shribman, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 3, 1990  But he did not find himself alone. There in the middle of the room stood Democratic Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware, the chairman of the committee. Addressing Mr. Souter simply as David, Mr. Biden advised the nervous nominee to relax and invited him to sit in the chair where he would testify and to try out the microphone. The senator told Mr. Souter that the first question he would ask the next day would be about the right to privacy. Finally, the senator assured him, nobody on the committee would know more about the law than Mr. Souter himself.  From the moment his nomination was announced, on July 23, until he completed the toughest job interview in America before the Judiciary Committee in September, Mr. Souter plowed through 26 books of briefing materials, watched videotapes of previous confirmation hearings, benefited from the research of 10 Justice Department and White House lawyers (not to mention various statehouse lawyers in Concord), and heard from several sitting justices on the nation's highest court. He himself produced 1,600 pages of material in response to inquiries from the Senate -- "not bad," Mr. Souter quipped, "for a guy with no paper trail."  For that reason, they stressed Mr. Souter's ties with Sen. Rudman, a moderate, and played down his ties with former New Hampshire Gov. John Sununu, the White House chief of staff, a conservative. Sen. Rudman turned his office into central headquarters for the confirmation effort. He even bought Mr. Souter a bed and invited him to stay at his Washington home. Just this past week, Mr. Rudman has been doing some house hunting for Mr. Souter, looking at apartments and town houses. The nominee had worried it would be presumptuous to do that himself before his new job was nailed down.   
