19820114
LONDON, Jan. 13— Denis Thatcher, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's husband, flew to Algeria today to help press the search for their 28-year-old son, Mark, who disappeared five days ago during an auto race through the Sahara.  The younger Mr. Thatcher, a sports car driver, was taking part in an automobile rally from Paris to Dakar, Senegal. He and his French codriver, 38-year-old Charlotte Verney, were last seen in southern Algeria on Friday, when they were said to have told a passing driver that they had stopped to repair a cracked rear axle. Earlier this week, they were erroneously reported to have been rescued.  President Francois Mitterrand of France, the former colonial power in that part of Africa, sent a message of concern and sympathy to Mrs. Thatcher, and ordered three French Air Force planes to fly to southern Algeria to join Algerian aircraft in the search, in an area near the Mali border.  The 290 competitors in the race, which was sponsored by the Parisbased Automobile Sporting Association, set out from Paris on Jan. 1 for Marseilles, where they boarded ferries for Algeria. The course leads through Algeria, Mali, a part of Upper Volta and finally Senegal. Carried Some Food and Water  Mr. Thatcher and Miss Verney were in a Peugeot. According to some reports, they had a mechanic with them. They carried some food and water, but it was not clear how much.  The search for Mr. Thatcher was being coordinated from the southern Algerian desert outpost of Tamanrasset, which was one of the checkpoints along the rally route, and has long been an oasis for travelers crossing the Sahara.  The searchers feared that Mr. Thatcher's car might have strayed west of Tamanrasset, into the Ahaggar Mountains, a vast, bleak region with deep ravines and peaks of up to 4,000 feet. The rolling, rocky terrain there could make it difficult to spot a car from the air. Mrs. Thatcher in Tears  At a public appearance in London this afternoon, Prime Minister Thatcher broke into tears when asked about her son, and said: ''I'm sorry, there is no news. I am very concerned.''  She then canceled engagements for later in the day and stayed home at No. 10 Downing Street. Mark and his twin sister, Carol, are the on ly children of Mrs. and Mrs Thatcher. Neither of the children is marr ied. Carol, who worked for a time as a journalis t in Australia, returned to Britain last year and is living w ith her parents in Downing Street.  Illustrations: map of northwestern Africa 
