19810224
WASHINGTON, Feb. 23— Despite unhappiness about proposed cuts in Federal funds for Medicaid, the Governors of 48 states met today with President Reagan to assure him that they generally supported his efforts to ''restore balance to the Federal system,'' as Gov. George Busbee of Georgia put it.  Mr. Busbee, chairman of the National Governors Association, said the Governors were as determined as the President to see that the role of the states was enhanced and the Federal Government's influence reduced. Difference of Opinion  But he said they had told Mr. Reagan that they took a view different from his on how to carry out those goals, believing that while the states should be responsible for law enforcement or education, the Federal Government should pay the costs of such transfer payment programs as welfare and Medicaid, the Federal-state program that pays health-care costs for the poor.  Mr. Busbee said it was clear that Mr. Reagan did not now believe in a strong Federal role in Medicaid or welfare. ''But,'' he said, ''they're listening and we're making our points.'''  Even before Mr. Busbee voiced his support, Mr. Reagan told him that a shift in the division of power between the Federal and state governments was ''a long-term dream of mine.'' He said that he was establishing a ''coordinating task force'' to work on ways to accomplish that goal. One item on that agenda that he cited in particular was the return of ''tax sources that more properly belong'' to the states.  Gov. John N. Dalton of Virginia, a Republican, characterized today's session with Mr. Reagan as one in which ''48 Governors wanted to work with him,'' meaning Mr. Reagan.  Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, another Republican, said of the President: ''He is exercising Presidential leadership in a remarkably effective manner.'' Mr. Alexander said that after the meeting the Governors felt that the President's budget approach was ''sweeping, comprehensive and indicates an enormous willingness to give state and local governments more responsibility.'' Mr. Busbee said, ''We fully support his taking this forthright action and us having this interplay.''  Several governors at the meeting said that although the tone of their colleagues' comments was generally supportive of Mr. Reagan, they repeatedly emphasized that they needed to have greater flexibility to reshape programs before, and not after, Federal aid cuts took effect. Mr. Busbee said that the President listened more than he talked, but that he responded to about one-third of the comments.  One criticism of his approach came when Governor Carey of New York told Mr. Reagan that his plan for annual income tax reductions of 10 percent for individuals for three years would not work. Mr. Carey said that he told Mr. Reagan ''it will fuel inflation.'' He quoted the President as vehemently responding ''that every time it was tried, it worked.'' Mr. Carey said the President was mistaken, but ''you don't debate the President.'' Opposition to Medicaid Cuts  Both at the White House and at the Governors' own three-day meeting at a Washington hotel, state chief executives complained about the Medicaid cuts. In both forums, the Administration told the Governors that it wanted to give them the administrative flexibility that they sought, including power to negotiate charges with providers of health services.  But while both sides promised to keep talking, Mr. Busbee said that the Governors still had some ''real problems'' with the Administration's position on Medicaid, which the governors' committee dealing with it called ''unacceptable'' earlier in the day.  The President has proposed reducing anticipated Federal Medicaid grants to the states by $100 million in the current fiscal year and by $1 billion in the fiscal year 1982. After that, the Federal contribution would rise at the same rate as inflation. States would have to make up the difference, either by changing eligibility requirements, reducing payment rates or increasing efficiency. Move to Support Administration  As the Governors' group continued to grapple with the Medicaid issue, its leaders were seeking to develop a resolution of praise for the Administration's overall budget package. However, they were seeking to draft it in terms that governors who consider their states hard-hit by the plan, especially Democrats in the Northeast, would not feel compelled to oppose. In the atmosphere of only gentle sparring that characterized their meeting, Mr. Busbee was hopeful of reaching such a resolution.  Indeed, the greatest passions of the meeting developed when governors argued among themselves over whether to endorse Federal activities to identify more hazardous air pollutants and to take action to halt the effects of acid rain.  They decided not to take the first action, after Governor Dalton declared, ''People are rising up in arms against the idea that we will solve all these issues at the Federal level regardless of cost.''  On the issue of acid rain, they took a vague stand, saying that they wanted the problem solved, but preferring state-to-state arrangements to Federal controls. Air Pollution Problem  Gov. William A. O'Neill of Connecticut complained that ''pollutants know no boundary lines.'' But Gov. James A. Rhodes of Ohio, said that the Governors should not be ''helping the Federal Government to do more to screw up the economy of these United States.''  But there appeared to be far more unity on the Medicaid issue. None of the governors disagreed with Gov. Scott M. Matheson of Utah when he told Richard S. Schweiker, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that the Administration's ''cap'' on Federal payments for Medicaid was ''unacceptable.''  Mr. Matheson said at a committee meeting that he and other Governors thought Medicaid costs could be brought under control only if the Administration sought to curb increases in hospital charges in the much larger Medicare program. Medicare, which is immune from cuts in the Reagan budget, helps the elderly, regardless of income levels, whereas Medicaid pays bills for the poor.  Mr. Matheson, backed by other governors, said that states could cut Medicaid costs, but only after laws and regulations had been changed to give them greater authority, and especially if they were enabled to find community care substitutes for long-term nursing home care.  Mr. Schweiker said that he was doubtful about moving away from the ''cap'' or limit in future increases in Federal aid. 
