19820310
IT has always seemed better to grate Parmesan at the moment pasta is dished up, the way restaurants have been doing it for years. Freshly grated cheese is infinitely better than store-bought and even better than cheese you might have grated that morning. It transforms the plainest dish. It can be used on all homemade pasta, including manicotti or lasagna and on risotto.  Until recently a square four-faced grater was my grating tool, but it was a lot of work and was constantly grating my knuckles. As for drum graters, none seemed to be strong enough.  An efficient drum grater, made by Moulinex and imported from France, has come on the market. Called a mouli-grater, it has the advantages of strength and the many things you can do with it. Made of stainless steel, it easily grates the toughest pieces of cheese right down to the end so there is no waste. With this grater you put the cheese in the funnel, clamp down the top and turn the handle at the side.  The grater comes in two models, one with a single fine-grating drum, the other, a three-drum version, includes attachments for grating, slicing and shredding - a sort of low-cost food processor. It works fast and efficiently and is easy to wash.  The single-drum grater is useful for grating onions to go into a vinaigrette dressing and for carrots, which are good in a green salad. It is also excellent for grating Gruyere and Parmesan for souffles and for cheese for sauce Mornay to go on spinach, fish, eggs or vegetables. It works wonderfully with nuts, such as walnuts grated on pasta or pecans, walnuts, almonds or hazelnuts for homemade cookies.  The three-drum model includes a fine grater and one with coarse holes for vegetables, which can be used for potato latkes, the Jewish pancakes made with onions and potatoes, grated and fried until brown and crisp. It is also handy for grating zucchini, which can be sauteed in butter and added to pasta just before serving, giving a lovely color to the pasta.  The grater is also useful for making horseradish sauce to go with boiled beef. After thickening stock with roux (butter mixed to a paste with flour) and cream, you stir in the grated horseradish and spices like allspice and cloves. Fresh horseradish is good with cocktail sauce for shrimp; it is simple to do: just make a caramel with sugar and vinegar and stir in tomato paste and freshly grated horseradish.  The slicing drum works well for carrots, cucumbers or radishes for garnishes. All vegetables must be cut into chunks about two inches square before being put in place. You can even put in chunks of cabbage, but it is easier and less time-consuming to shred cabbage with a knife.  If you are left-handed, put the drum in with the handle on the left and turn it away from you when you grate. The grater is on sale at department stores and some specialty stores, including Bridge Kitchenware and Dean & DeLuca. The list price is $7.98 for the single drum and $10.98 for the three-drum grater. Pierre Franey  Illustrations: photo of mouli-grater 
