20021105
 NASD Discloses Disciplinary Action   By By Evelyn Lee, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 6, 2002  Principal Lisa June Strong, Peoria, was fined $5,000 and barred from association with any NASD member in any principal or managerial capacity. A $5,000 fine was imposed. The fine must be paid upon reassociation with any NASD member or before requesting relief from any statutory disqualification. Without admitting or denying the charges, Ms. Strong consented to findings that a member firm, acting through Ms. Strong, received notice of customer complaints or arbitration proceedings against brokers, sanctions imposed by the NASD against brokers, the suspension of a broker and the settlement of arbitration proceedings against brokers, and failed to cause amendments to be filed to Forms U-5 and U-4 on behalf of the representatives after learning of the reportable events and facts and circumstances giving rise to the requirement to amend. The findings also said a member firm, acting through Ms. Strong, received notice of disciplinary actions taken by the NASD against brokers and settlements of arbitration claims against brokers and the firm and failed to report such incidents to the NASD after becoming aware of the incidents.  Lawrence Paul Chielli, a broker, Middletown, was barred from association with any NASD member in any capacity, without admitting or denying findings that he received a $2,000 check from a customer with instructions to purchase various shares of a common stock, and subsequently, the customer instructed Mr. Chielli to sell such shares. The findings said Mr. Chielli misrepresented to the customer that he had made such transactions, although he was aware that no such transactions had ever occurred. Mr. Chielli provided the customer with fictitious account statements that reflected transactions that had never occurred, the NASD said. When the customer requested that some of the profits be sent to him, Mr. Chielli sold shares of a mutual fund the customer owned without the customer's knowledge, authorization or consent, the NASD said. In addition, the NASD found that Mr. Chielli failed to respond to NASD requests for information.  Louis Michael Montaino, a broker, Middle Village, was suspended from association with any NASD member in any capacity for six months, and Michael Robert Marcus, Brooklyn, was fined $20,000 and suspended from association with any NASD member in any capacity for eight months. Without admitting or denying the charges, the respondents consented to the described sanctions and to the entry of findings that they, directly or indirectly, by the use of any means of interstate commerce or of the mail or of any facility of any national securities exchange, knowingly or recklessly used manipulative or deceptive devices in connection with the purchase or sale of securities; knowingly or recklessly made transactions in, or induced the purchase or sale of, securities by means of manipulative, deceptive or other fraudulent devices; or made false statements of material fact and omitted material facts necessary to make the statements not misleading. The findings also said Mr. Marcus arranged for his girlfriend to purchase shares of stock for her account at a steep discount to the prevailing market price, began placing day limit-purchase orders for shares of stock with a market maker to create the appearance of interest and activity in the stock and placed all stock purchased into the firm's proprietary account. The NASD also found that Mr. Marcus knew he was participating in the manipulation of the stock; knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that the inside bid was increasing during the time he placed his limit orders; and knew that the market maker with whom he was placing the limit orders held the inside bid most of the time and that there was essentially no volume passing over the ticker in this security other than that created by the limit orders. In addition, the NASD found that Mr. Montaino and another broker with whom he shared a registered representative number solicited public customers to purchase the stock, failed to disclose material risks and fraudulently misled investors in connection with their decision to purchase and sell the common stock. The findings also said Mr. Montaino solicited and obtained customer orders for purchases of the stock and held the orders for execution without authorization from the customers until Mr. Marcus filled the orders with shares held in inventory by their member firm, thereby realizing about $1,900,000 in profit for the firm. The findings also said Mr. Marcus sold the shares of stock in his girlfriend's account, realizing about $29,000 in profit for the account.   
