20030109
 The New Face of Air Rage   By By Brooks Barnes, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 10, 2003  In case you hadn't noticed, there's a new kind of air rage out there -- but it's the crew, not the passengers, who seem to be losing their cool. Stressed out by layoffs, extra security duties and now two big airline bankruptcies, pilots and flight attendants may have reached their boiling point. While no one keeps hard numbers on angry outbursts aloft, in a first-of-its-kind survey American Express found that 55% of fliers have seen a "noticeable decline" in cabin service, and one big flight attendants' union just hired a psychologist to study job stress. Even the airlines acknowledge they've got a frazzled work force. "As human beings we can only take so much," a United spokesman says.  Now the gripes are coming from the passengers, though flight attendants say a lot of what seems like rude behavior isn't their fault. For some time now, under new federal rules, flight attendants have been required to step up scrutiny of passengers for security risks while smiling and serving drinks. With pilots locked in the cockpit, they can't count on extra help to calm unhappy fliers either. "We would just grin and bear a lot of bad behavior," says Pat Friend, president of the Association of Flight Attendants. Now, "we treat even the most minor disturbance as a level-one threat."  Lisa Wallis, of Portland, Ore., says she was "afraid to move a muscle" on an Alaska Airlines flight to Los Angeles this fall after a flight attendant made a harsh announcement over the intercom. "Basically, people," she recalls the steward saying, "sit down, shut up, eyes forward -- and never forget that we are in control." ("Not everybody on every flight can have the same sense of humor," an Alaska spokesman says.) Even flying in first class, normally a haven with polite crew members, hasn't helped. Instead of pampering her, Ms. Wallis says, a harried-looking flight attendant turned down her drink order, then spent the flight napping in an empty seat -- with slippers on. "I just sat there in disbelief," says the sportswear-chain manager. "For $1,800, I at least expected her to stay awake the whole time."   
