19820108
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 7— Expressing concern over the continuing low enrollment of minority students in law schools, the trustees o f the Law School Admission Council voted today to c ommit $1.2 million over the next four years to programs designed to a ttract more blacks, Hispanic Americans and members of other minor ities to the bar. ''We are pu tting our money where society's mouth has been for a long time,'' said Rennard Strickland, a professor of law at the University of Tulsa, chairman of the council's minority enrollment task force.  The decision was announced after the group's annual meeting. The group suggested working through student advisers in high schools and colleges, using minority lawyers to encourage applications and studying minority career patterns with an eye to identifying prospective law students. Its suggestions are to be reviewed and voted on in the coming months. A $20,000 advertising campaign to urge minority youths to consider law careers has already begun.  Funds Come From Test Fees  The Law School Admission Council supervises and standardizes admissions procedures for its 173 member schools. Its funds come from fees paid by students who take the Law School Admission Test.  Much of the recruitment drive will be devoted to overcoming what educators called a myth among minority students that very high test scores were needed for admission.  ''The truth,'' said Bruce I. Zimmer, executive director of the admission council, ''is that approximately 85 percent of minority students with L.S.A.T scores above the 25th percentile and with grade point averages of 2.5 or higher get into law school.''  Nevertheless, the number of minority group members applying to and accepted at law schools has remained almost stationary since 1975, after minority enrollment tripled in the previous five years, according to a study completed last month by the council. Increase in College Graduates  Law educators are especially puzzled about the plateau in applications because the proportion of college graduates who belong to minority groups has increased and is beginning to approach their percentage in the general population.  Minority students received 116,000 of 916,000 undergraduate degrees awarded by American colleges in the school year ending in 1979, according to figures provided by the council. That is more than 11 percent of the total.  But in the fall of that year minorities represented only 10,000 of some 123,000 registered law students, or 8 percent. The minority figure includes some 1,500 Asian Americans, who attend law school in higher percentages than their representation in the general population. 
