20040611
 Wonder Land: Ronald Reagan Started a War That Rages Today   By Henninger, Daniel, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 11, 2004  The fervor with which LBJ's speeches describe the Great Society's legislative crusade matched and even exceeded [Ronald Wilson Reagan]'s. His 1964 State of the Union Speech was astonishing in its list of "we must" goals: "All this and more can and must be done." He committed the government to "unconditional war on poverty." The next year he was giving speeches on the signing of historic bills for civil rights, Medicare, education, even highway beautification, which seeded the environmental movement. On signing the 1965 education bill in Johnson City, Texas, LBJ remarked, "My minister assured me that the Lord's day will not be violated by making into law a measure which will bring mental and moral benefits to millions of our young people." Yes, moral benefits.  The Democrats' most potent weapon was the Ethics in Government Act of 1978. If shown to be "unethical," the old church's fathers reasoned, Reaganism's moral standing would fall. Among the first over the side was the president's national security adviser, Richard Allen. Special prosecutors sprouted, taking down Labor Secretary Ray Donovan, who famously asked where he had to go to get his reputation back. The "sleaze factor" was born. National Journal counted 38 Reagan officials tangled in such controversy; the Democrats said it was closer to 100.  Did Ronald Reagan succeed? He had more measurable success against the Soviet Union. It's gone. Much of the Great Society endures, no longer exciting the brilliant young, and smoking with inefficiencies. But the basic tenet of Reaganism, "the individual genius of man," now has a moral claim in our politics at least equal to the Democrats' distributive justice. The Reagan wars persist in our time because his professed heir, [George W. Bush], also cut taxes. Tax revenue is the holy water of liberalism -- what they use, they believe, to work social miracles. Ronald Reagan said individuals are the source of miracles, not the government. Those were fighting words. Ronald Reagan departs, a victor.   
