20000913
 Under the Weather: Efforts to Ease Delays In Summer Air Travel Also Produce Snarls --- FAA's Centralized Controls, New Radar Screens Are Cited for Lost Efficiency --- `Things Really Got Hairy'   By By Scott McCartney, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 14, 2000  The U.S. air-traffic system basically comprises all control towers at the nation's airports, plus the 21 regional FAA control centers that direct planes most of the way between takeoff and touchdown. Overseeing all of this is the FAA's main command center in Herndon, Va. In the past, the individual towers and regional centers would each manage flights as they wanted, with little national coordination. They used their own weather forecasts, which often contradicted each other, or forecasts from airline meteorologists. The result tended to be a hodgepodge of arbitrary local decisions that could seriously bog down certain regions.  Some days this summer, participants say, the process was relatively smooth. But not always. On Aug. 17, for example, airline and FAA officials agreed during an early-morning conference call to delay operations at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport because of storms in the area. Airlines agreed to cancel some flights but continued to count on others, based on an understanding that the FAA wouldn't shut off all traffic. Yet by 9 a.m., with no change in the weather, the FAA command center in Herndon suddenly ordered a stop to all traffic, leaving everyone stranded. Airlines were furious, and problems at O'Hare cascaded into a chaotic day across the country.  Some of the trouble this summer actually resulted from new technology. For example, radar displays the FAA installed at all its centers last year -- while hailed by controllers for their reliability, added features and ease of use -- have a serious drawback: The displays lack crucial data on the height of storm clouds, which is found on weather radar displays commonly used by TV news stations and pilots. Airlines complain some controllers are rerouting airplanes around storms they could easily fly over or zigzag through. The FAA monitors, with their H-shaped symbols and stark lines indicating storms, also make some weather systems appear worse than they are, airlines say.   
