19930420
 Executive Pay (A Special Report) --- Gimme Gimme Gimme: Don't Tell Me the '80s Are Over; I'm Ready for the Good Life!   By By Gil Schwartz, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 21, 1993  I got my first headband -- a leather job that tied in the back with a thong -- in 1971, at least four years after everybody else. I bought my first sports car in 1981, when I turned 30, and had it equipped with a thoroughly retrograde roll bar that only my mother liked. In 1985, I purchased one of the last PC-XT computers, just as the brand-new 286-ATs came rolling off the truck. Two years later, I righted that situation by nabbing a brand-new AT -- just 10 days before they were relegated to doorstop status by the screaming 386s. I did not own a yellow tie with tiny blue escutcheons until, quite laughably, 1991, and as late as November of 1992 I could be found carefully selecting a pair of power suspenders at the upscale end of a shopping mall that featured factory outlets. I got a great deal on them, too.  The point is this: I get around to all great societal trends, but I take my time doing so. Find a curve -- I'll be behind it. So, quite naturally, while everyone else was bellying up to the groaning oyster bar of the corpulent 1980s with appetite to spare, I was hanging around with my head stuck deeply into what was left of the countercultural sandbox, missing the entire selfish decade. Tragically (for me at any rate), I have now finally caught up with the rest of you and discovered Greed not as something small and petty, but as a thoroughly satisfying personal life choice that informs all aspects of existence. And it's too late.  Call me a fool. Call me crazy. But I feel like I'm standing on the street corner with a tiny dollop of drool hanging off the end of my chin. When does my time come? People are talking about "sacrifice" and "giving something back," and worst of all, the hateful "having enough." Bah! Here I'm finally ready to start rolling down the big green highway, double-digit increases in salary and perks tucked under my hood, and everybody else is pulling over to the side of the road to study the scenery. Don't tell me greed is dead! I haven't even begun to explore it! When I think about how I wasted the last decade, caring insufficiently about the material things that are the basis of everything that's really important in life! It makes me want to cry.   
