19820615
Taking 'No' for 'Maybe'  S ince 1979 Harlem has pinned big hopes on having its own International Trade Center, to foster trade with third-world countries, and on Federal financing for perhaps one-third of the estimated $150 million cost. Now it's not about to take ''no'' for an answer - even when conveyed in a ''Dear Charlie'' letter from Vice President Bush.  Writing to Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Vice President praised to the skies the project's objectives and potential. Then, he said Federal money would not be forthcoming ''at this time due to current budget constraints and, more importantly, because we think this should be a private-sector initiative.''  ''It almost floored me,'' said a Harlem Urban Development Corporation aide. ''I thought they'd pulled the plug. Then I looked at the whole picture and thought maybe they were trying to tell Rangel not to be so hard on them in the budget fights.''  Much less flappable was Congressman Rangel himself, the third-ranking member of the Ways and Means Committee, who hinted from Washington at plenty more up his sleeve.  ''The Administration's enterprise-zone bill is before my committee and they're asking my support on that,'' he said smoothly. ''We're exploring things with the State Department and at the Presidential staff level. Or we might come up with an issue of tax-exempt Federal bonds. We'll all take another look at it. There may be a political solution out of the White House. Or we may find a legislative solution.'' A New Twist On the Imaginary Playmate  T he quote was garbled by a wire service Sunday, and by day's end it was all over television and played prominently in a newspaper headline. It came out with Parks Commissioner Gordon J. Davis saying, at the cleanup following the giant antinuclear rally, ''There is more litter in my son's room than in Central Park.''  Mr. Davis has no son. He has a daughter, though, 7-year-old Elizabeth, who was confused at first but then decided she liked the idea. ''Of course I have a brother,'' she told her father yesterday, ''and he's 6 years old and invisible ... and you know who messed up my room this morning?'' Flag Day, With Fading Colors  I t would be nice to report that every heart beat true under red, white and blue yesterday, but Flag Day in New York came and moved on much like Carl Sandburg's fog.  There was even an edge to the ceremonies outside Fraunces Tavern, where George Washington bade farewell to his troops. For the first time in years, the city did not provide the platform for the speakers, and Allen W. Finger mentioned this - with just a hint of complaint - to the few hundred people gathered for the music and speechifying.  Mr. Finger, who heads the Flag Day committee of the Sons of the Revolution, talked afterward about how he has come to understand such small indignities. ''This has not had the publicity that some of the other groups have had in the last three weeks,'' he observed with a smile.  The small downtown crowd that took time from the lunch hour seemed to think it a fine enough ceremony, although more than a few had to ask around to learn what the occasion was. There were color guards and a short parade, too, across Wall Street and down Broad Street, with bagpipers and schoolchildren in Minuteman costumes. ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' was sung, and the Pledge of Allegiance was recited. Truth be known, not many joined in. Weighing the Ratings On Wall Street  T he economy must be shipshape and everybody happy with the market, because Wall Street has turned to more urgent matters: Can a nineminute collage from R-rated movies be shown to full-grown underwriters at the New York Stock Exchange luncheon club?  Alfred Shoenberg, a brokerage president, said he was considering a damage suit after being ''drummed out of the club,'' as he put it yesterday, for scheduling excerpts from films that will be offered to cable and pay television. The clips were part of a presentation to underwriters by Private Screenings, a company that his concern, Shoenberg, Hieber, had recently helped go public.  The R rating bars viewers younger than 17 unaccompanied by an adult. No invited underwriter under age 17 has been identified. Mr. Shoenberg conceded, however, that ''the sexual content of these movies is definitely stronger than 'Cat People' or 'Porky's' or 'Quest for Fire,' '' among current R ratings.  ''Adult movies - we call them adult movies,'' he said, ''but they're not X-rated. Besides, we didn't show them, we didn't even have the meeting there - they called me up before the fact and said, 'We'd like your resignation by 4 P.M.' ''  William E. Rex Jr. of Kidder Peabody, president of the 1,600-member private club, said that ''what the members do is their business, what happens at the club is my business.''  Said Mr. Shoenberg, ''They sure do get serious about lunch.'' Disconnected Complaints  T he woman - she happens to be extremely well known, but that's not the issue - took a card from the cab dispatcher at Kennedy Airport, one of those yellow sheets telling her in five languages to call the Taxi and Limousine Commission at 747-0930 if she has a complaint.  Well, she found the driver ''rude and dishonest,'' but when she dialed 747-0930, a recording announced that the number had been disconnected. End of announcement. What if she were an out-of-towner, the woman wondered aloud yesterday, and did not know she should call 411 for the new number?  As it turns out, 747-0930 has been dead since March. ''Odd,'' said Jay L. Turoff, the chairman of the taxi commission; the recording was supposed to direct callers to 382-9301. He said he'd look into it. Clyde Haberman Laurie Johnston  Illustrations: photo of militiamen 
