20040113
 Dollar's Decline Has Little Impact On Import Prices; While Euro-Zone Nations Feel Pressure, Trade Deficit Remains Unaffected So Far   By Ip, Greg, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 14, 2004  For now, it's a double-edged sword for the U.S. Because the falling dollar isn't triggering more inflation, the Federal Reserve has seen no reason to raise interest rates, which would rein in U.S. growth and Americans' appetite for imports. Speaking yesterday in Germany, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said, "inflation, the typical symptom of a weak currency, appears quiescent." But for the same reason, the weaker dollar has yet to shrink the record U.S. trade deficit which analysts say is the main reason the dollar is falling.  For instance, because of the price war in the U.S. car market, German auto makers now sell some high-end models in the U.S. for far less than they fetch in Europe, according to a study by Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, managing director of the Center for Automotive Research in Gelsenkirchen, Germany. For example, Volkswagen AG's luxury Audi A8L with a V8 engine lists for $68,500 in the U.S., a third less than its dollar-equivalent price in Europe. "We are definitely not going to make a huge profit," VW Chief Executive Bernd Pischetsrieder said at the Detroit motor show last week.  There are signs the dollar's decline is helping U.S. exporters. "Manufacturers are pretty upbeat about an export recovery emerging in many sectors, or most sectors, in 2004," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. But the gaping U.S. trade deficit is due primarily not to weak exports, but to imports, which surged to 14% of gross domestic product last year from 11% in 1993, while exports fluctuated between 9% and 11%. As a result, the U.S. current-account deficit -- the shortfall in goods and services trade and investment income between the U.S. and the rest of the world -- averaged $530 billion at an annual rate through the first nine months of last year, or a record 5% of GDP.   
