19810916
S TRATEGISTS at the Democratic National Committee, trying to look beyond the endless issue of the troubled economy, have concluded that the Reagan Administration may soon attempt to revive the politicians' evergreen: the issue of crime in the streets.  An official of the D.N.C. says the party hears that the Republicans are putting together a big national television address on crime. The White House is silent on the subject, but a special Presidential task force is studying the problem.  For Democrats, another strong Reagan performance on television would again raise the frustrating question of whom to offer as the party's spokesman in a televised rebuttal. Several members of Congress were auditioned in the role after Mr. Reagan's earlier speeches, and these Democrats were little noted nor long remembered in t he TV ratings.  Part of the problem is intramural. Better known names like Kennedy, Mondale or Glenn might excite a larger audience, but the D.N.C. does not want to promote one potential Presidential aspirant over another. Nonetheless, the rebuttal role offers a free chance to be heard by millions -a breathtaking opportunity for any working politician. If the issue is crime, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, a specialist in legislation on the subject, is considered a likely spokesman.  T HIS city is more democratic than some lawmakers like. Representative David F. Emery is researching a little-known law that bars agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation from trailing anyone onto the grounds of the Capitol. The Congressman discovered the law after a strange visit the other day from a man who at first seemed a dream constituent. The visitor smiled, shy as a tourist, and wore a red, white and blue necktie printed with a Capitol mongram. Intimations of mom and apple pie faded when the man, speaking in a heavy Russian accent, politely asked for a copy of the Congressman's latest plan for basing the MX missile.  ''A clumsy episode'' says the Congressman. His staff rebuffed the visitor, who, said, yes, he was from the Soviet Embassy, and might he have the unclassified document, please.  ''Such brass,'' said the Maine lawmaker, who was told by the F.B.I. that the man was a Soviet agent but that he could not be followed because of the law protecting the Capitol grounds from F.B.I. surveillance. ''I want to change that,'' Mr. Emery said. ''It's possible to come around here and get copies of almost anything.''  F ROM the Pentagon, this latest estimate of the difficulty in overcoming Congressional opposition to the sale of Awac's radar planes to Saudi Arabia: ''This is not going to waltz through like a resolution commending somebody's mother.'' -Henry E. Catto Jr., chief spokesman.  NOT the slightest whiff of crimped budget is in the air this week as the nation's major military contractors show off their wares in convention. It may be disarmin g to the laymen to wander beneath long mock missiles and find the ''HARM'' and ''Aggressor'' fighter plane systems displ ayed as enticingly as the free coffee and Danish. But the hordes of military officers coming over from the Pentagon crowd around as if it's a buyer's market.  The convention, sponsored by the Air Force Association, is packing the Sheraton Washington Hotel with bright displays of weaponry products, and like any industry convention, young women have been hired to stand with a smile near the lethal wares. At the gift stand, Givenchy neckties monogrammed with the Air Force symbol are selling like hardware down at the Cruise missile stall.  ''Well, golly, I couldn't quite hang in,'' said one man whose trigger finger on the Sierra Research fighter missile mock-up was a bit slow. There was a whee sound and a boom, like the Space Invader game played in civilian shopping malls, and the loser walked away from the cockpit screen, without a scratch. General Electric whose motto is to ''Bring Good Things to Life'' at civilian conventions, has a different display for the military - a show entitled ''Winning the Dog Fight.'' Another contractor has built a mock TV anchor desk and hired a local TV weatherman, Paul Anthony, to ''broadcast'' the ''top story:'' the sale of its combat wares. ''Gunsmoke '81!'' one purveyor's sign exults.  T HERE is a Madison Memorial in town that theoretically is co-equal to the famous monuments to Lincoln, Washington and Jefferson. But the Madison memorial, with a statue of the great Federalist writer looking thoughtful and bookish, is closeted away in a side hall of the new boxlike addition to the Library of Congress, the Madison building. Mr. Madison seems in danger of being forgotten there since some employees already call the building ''Exxon headquarters'' in dismal salute to its windowless lines. Francis X. Clines Bernard Weinraub 
