19810704
NORTH ADAMS, Mass., July 3— A little town that refused to let its oldest soldier die threw a party today for the return of a Civil War statue that became a pile of stones one perilous night in the headlights' white glare.  It took three years and the careful labor of a Yankee tinkerer to piece together the 11-foot-high statue of the Union soldier, dedicated in a Fourth of July celebration in 1878, when the town was less than a year old.  At the second dedication, back in his place today at the head of the green where Union soldiers trained for battle, the old soldier got a parade and a brass band that played ''The Stars and Stripes Forever'' for an early Fourth of July celebration. About 250 cheering townspeople were on hand for the ceremony.  ''The old fellow means a lot to us,'' said Richard C. Lamb, the Mayor of this Berkshire hills town of 17,000 people near the Vermont border. ''He's a sign of stability and our heritage that's very important to us with the new K-Mart going up and the other changes downtown.'' An Icy Night, a $30,000 Accident  On an icy March night three years ago, a Vermont teen-ager, who the police said had drunk too much beer, lost control of his car and smashed it into the statue, shattering it. The police carefully picked up the pieces, but experts said it would take at least $30,000 to repair the statue.  The city placed a classified advertisement in Yankee magazine for a second-hand statue, price negotiable, and preferably of a Union soldier.  ''There must have been thousands made after the war - you know the old soldier with his cap looking at his rifle,'' said Lewis Cuyler, a resident. But the advertisement netted no statue.  Next came the Humpty Dumpty approach. Mr. Cuyler laid out the pieces of the statue at the town sewage treatment plant, and residents tried to put the soldier back together again. Neighbor in Vermont to the Rescue  When things looked bleakest, Carl Robare, a life-long tinkerer, appeared. Friends and neighbors in nearby Stamford, Vt., where Mr. Robare lives, said the 57-year-old technician, who works for New England Telephone Company, could repair anything.  Mr. Robare said he liked ''fixing things that no one else will,'' and he offered to give the old soldier a try for $3,500. ''I felt real bad seeing him lying there in the sewer plant,'' Mr. Robare said. ''After all, I grew up with him. Lots of people could have done it, but they wanted to get rich. If they don't like it, they don't have to pay me.'' The Marble Was Limestone  In putting the statue back together again, the town discovered that the ''white Sicilian marble'' statue, which the Ladies Aid Society bought in 1878 for $1,200, turned out to be ''white Berkshire limestone that goes for 50 cents a ton,'' said Mr. Robare.  But it made little difference to the residents of North Adams. Mr. Robare put in 240 hours of work with homemade cement, the two legs, the battered 700-pound torso, the half head, the musket piece and a box full of shards. ''I wirebrushed a century of pigeon droppings off him, built up the parts that were missing and then coated him all over with a waterproof silicon finish,'' Mr. Robare said.  Mayor Lamb said the city was considering erecting a wrought iron fence around the statue.  Illustrations: photo of Carl Robare working on statue 
