19930114
 Parent Trap: Hiring of Illegal Nanny By Zoe Baird Points To Boomer Blind Spot --- Must One Give Up Good Help Over a Question of Taxes? That Depends, Many Say --- `This Is a Crime of the Rich'   By By Cathy Trost and Joe Davidson, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 15, 1993  Like many others, Zoe Baird chose to hire the illegals -- and not to pay their Social Security taxes during their time of employment. But her 1990 decision to employ two Peruvians who were living illegally in the U.S. now could pose problems for her confirmation as the Clinton administration's attorney general. Ms. Baird hired the couple to be her driver and the nanny for her son when she went to work for Aetna Life & Casualty Co. in Hartford, Conn.  To thousands of working families struggling to find decent child care in a country lacking enough to go around, Ms. Baird's crime appears to rank with jaywalking. Many families hire maids, nannies, nurses, and other illegal household employees and don't pay the taxes. Some get caught by the Internal Revenue Service, and face thousands of dollars in penalties.  Ms. Baird, currently general counsel for Aetna, earning $507,000 a year, voluntarily informed the committee and the Federal Bureau of Investigation that she and her husband, Yale Law School Prof. Paul Gerwitz, hired the illegal immigrants. And though they hadn't paid the couple's Social Security taxes while they were employed, they sent in a lump sum of about $12,000 on Jan. 5, including a penalty and interest. The payment was made after Ms. Baird's nomination. The failure to pay the Social Security taxes was based on legal advice Ms. Baird and her husband say they obtained at the time. According to transition-team and government officials, Ms. Baird and her husband consulted a lawyer who told them they wouldn't be able to pay such taxes on workers who had no Social Security numbers. In a letter written last week recounting the advice given to the couple, attorney Thomas H. Belote said that "although civil penalties are technically applicable" for hiring illegal aliens, "no employer sanctions have ever been applied as a result of the employment of undocumented domestic workers in Connecticut."   
