19810220
Correction Appended It was a gathering of stars and lesser luminaries from fashion's golden age. Joseph E. Brooks, the chairman of Lord & Taylor, invited them to lunch at the store to honor the late Claire McCardell, the fashion designer who helped introduce the American look more than 40 years ago.  They included beautiful women such as Carol Gaff Mann, Carolyn Block March, Hope Bryce Preminger and Gillis McGil Addison, who had once been McCardell models, along with photographers such as Horst and Louise Dahl Wolf, who had taken their pictures.  Adrian McCardell, the designer's brother, a retired banker, and his wife, Phyllis, traveled from their home in Baltimore. Betty Furness and Lily Auchincloss, who had worn McCardell clothes, were there and so was Osborn Elliott, the dean of Columbia University's School of Journalism. Mr. Elliott had written the cover story on Miss McCardell for Time magazine in 1955.  ''It was my first toe-dip into fashion before I married Inger,'' Mr. Elliott recalled. His wife heads China Seas, a textile importing concern. ''I remember interviewing Miss McCardell and she was very kind.''  Others remembered with something like awe. ''I was her production man since 1931, when she started,'' said Harry Friedman. ''I knew her 50 years.'' ''I sewed all her clothes,'' said Bessie Susteric. ''I won't tell you for how long - you would know how old I am.'' Hope Skillman, the textile designer who supplied a lot of the cotton fabrics for which McCardell was known, turned up and so did Lee Klein, widow of Adolph Klein, who manufactured the clothes.  Miss McCardell died in 1958, ''but everybody who is here remembers her,'' Mr. Brooks observed, offering a toast. Celebrating a Revival  The group had been collected not only to remember Miss McCardell, but also to celebrate a revival. For the store, which had introduced McCardell's work 40 years ago, had prepared a new collection based on her designs.  ''The thing she would have liked best is it's almost 25 years later and we're all here at Lord & Taylor and the clothes are good,'' observed Mrs. Preminger.  More than a few old friends and co-workers admitted to being tearyeyed when they came up to the store and saw the windows filled with contemporary versions of one of Miss McCardell's most popular designs, the Popover.  The first Popover was made in 1943, when women asked for something to wear in the kitchen when they cooked their own meals, as kitchen help had vanished with the war, Marjorie Griswold recalled. She was then a buyer at Lord & Taylor. The first version was done in denim and sold for $6.95, she said.  Someone produced a store advertisement from 1951 that featured Popovers at $19.95. The current prices start at $78. ''They look wonderful - I'm ready to buy,'' said Stella Blum, the curator of costumes at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.  Next to the display of Popovers on the third floor, the store assembled a collection of original McCardell designs, most of them borrowed from the Design Laboratory of the Fashion Institute of Technology.  The designer, who would be 75 years old today, made clothes that not only met the needs of her time but also look right today. The rest of the fashion world has caught up with her once-revolutionary insistence on clothes that are primarily comfortable and nonrestrictive, made of natural fabrics and follow and enhance the lines of the body. They do not scream, ''look at me,'' and consequently transcend ephemeral fashion, achieving permanence as style.  Illustrations: photo of Louise Dahl Wolf and Horst Wolf photo of dress Correction: February 21, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition A caption on the Style page yesterday misidentified the photographer with Louise Dahl Wolf. He is Horst P. Horst. 
