19821117
Ringed by crumbling, smoke-blackened buildings, Bronx Regional High School stands alone. Set in a neighborhood where it has been all too easy for children to drift toward drugs and violence, the school serves students who are former disciplinary problems, people who were labeled failures but who say they are now prepared to learn.  Bronx Regional, an alternative public high school at 1010 Stebbins Avenue in the South Bronx, opened four years ago under Mark Weiss, who serves as its principal, and, according to his colleagues and students, its inspiration.  Teachers and students praise the school's record. Mr. Weiss emphasized, however, that Bronx Regional did not work for everyone. ''We don't make miracles here,'' he said. ''For a certain set of kids, we make a difference.''  The school made a difference for Denean Mouzon, 17 years old, who had failed most of her courses at two other high schools because she seldom attended. In her two years at Bronx Regional, she has built a perfect attendance record and hopes to go to college.  ''In the last four years, it seemed as though everything was falling apart,'' she said in a recent interview. ''I just kept going in circles. I wasn't going to school, I had problems at home, I got mixed in with the wrong crowd. Then I came here. I'm never going to forget this place.  ''I wish there were more principals like Mr. Weiss: there'd be better teen-agers. I had personal problems that my own family didn't help with that Mr. Weiss helped with, and he's a stranger.''  There are many such stories at Bronx Regional, one of 10 alternative high schools in the city that are part of the regular public school system.  According to a new independent survey, sponsored by the Board of Education, of several of the alternative high schools, students who entered Bronx Regional in the fall of 1981 had been absent an average of 28 days a semester the previous school year. Fifty-four percent of the students were dropouts, 38 percent were truants and 33 percent had discipline problems. The students either chose to attend the school or were referred there by guidance counselors.  Students are now absent an average of 11 days a semester, and the attendance rate was 77 percent in September. The average attendance at many regular high schools in the city is below that rate.  Keeping Bronx Regional's 375 students in school and motivating them to study, Mr. Weiss said, requires exhortation, discipline and commitment - which he said were at the core of his educational philosophy.  ''We tell students, 'We're going to love you, we're going to care about you, we're going to be angry at you, we're going to demand things of you,' '' Mr. Weiss said as he patrolled the orderly and graffiti-free halls.  Spotting a student lounging against a wall, Mr. Weiss put his arm around the student's shoulder and told him to get to class. Outside the building, near a fence with holes poked in the wire, a few students tensed as Mr. Weiss approached. 'The Teen-Age Addiction'  ''Come on inside, you know you're supposed to be in class,'' he said. One student ambled into the school; the others headed away. It is a routine Mr. Weiss said he repeated every day, several times a day, to combat what he called ''the teen-age addiction - hanging out.''  ''I talk to kids about the street taking over the school,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''This should be a sanctuary. The students are telling us, 'Protect us, we're vulnerable,' and that's a strong element of what we're about.''  Before he went to Bronx Regional, Mr. Weiss, 37, administered a program on race relations that was taught at 17 high schools. Throughout the day in the Bronx, students streamed in and out of Mr. Weiss's office. One student who had stopped going to school pleaded to be allowed back, and his appeal was granted; others sought advice about class schedules or career choices. 'The Toughest Thing'  Samantha Hendrickson, 17, who entered Bronx Regional two years ago after sporadically attending two other high schools, walked in to the principal's office and told him she had decided to leave in January for a trade school.  Mr. Weiss asked: ''What can we do to help you make it? The toughest thing is to make a transition.'' Later he said he agreed with the student's decision, feeling that she was ready to move on and had got what she needed from the school. For some students, the school is not a success. A group of teachers discussed such a student recently. Disruptive and inattentive, the student was persuading friends to skip classes and failing to make significant academic progress, the teachers said. After half an hour, the teachers concluded that he should be told to leave. 'Form and Structure'  Some who leave take a test for a high school equivalency diploma; others find jobs or try to continue at night school. One of his goals for the future, Mr. Weiss said, is to upgrade the students' academic performance. Students who enter Bronx Regional have, on average, seventh-grade reading levels and sixth-grade mathematics skills. On graduating, students must perform at least at ninth-grade levels in both areas.  Although Bronx Regional is an alternative high school, it is by no means an unstructured one. Bells ring between classes and teachers keep noise down.  ''I felt that kids needed form and structure,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''They needed to feel like this was a real school.'' In one classroom, students sat on stools quietly picking out melodies on guitars; in another, a teacher moderated a heated debate about the relative worth of money and love. The debate was part of a project on the economy of the South Bronx. School-Based Support Team  The school has a full-time counselor for drug and alcohol problems as well as a school-based support team composed of a psychologist, a social worker and an educational evaluator who administers student placement tests.  Teachers at Bronx Regional say they use no gimmicks; rather they argue that the school's small size creates a feeling of community that reaches children others have given up as lost.  Toby Garfinkel, a psychologist on the support team, said: ''The kids have learned to find themselves again because of the caring spirit here. I wish there were more schools like this to save kids that can be saved. I have been in many, many schools throughout the system, and this school does for me what it does for the kids. I look forward to coming here, and that's a good feeling.''  Illustrations: photo of Bronx Regional High School photo of Jeff Bates photo of Mark Weiss 
