19980706
 Leak Charges Don't Hold Water   By By Byron York, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 7, 1998  Is there anyone who hasn't accused Kenneth Starr of improperly leaking evidence from the Monica Lewinsky investigation? After the publication of Steven Brill's lengthy attack on the independent counsel's ethics, suggestions that Mr. Starr has wrongly divulged secret information have been repeated so frequently that they have assumed an aura of certitude. But the accusations of leaking are at odds with the facts. A look at the evidence in the Lewinsky matter shows that far from being the leakiest independent counsel in history, Mr. Starr is perhaps the most secretive.  First, consider the tape of Ms. Lewinsky talking to Linda Tripp on Jan. 13 at the Ritz-Carlton Pentagon City, a recording made by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents working for Mr. Starr. Any report to Congress or other action by Mr. Starr would rely likely on that tape more than those recorded by Ms. Tripp herself, for the FBI recording was made under his supervision. On Jan. 15, Mr. Starr's deputies played portions of the tape for Justice Department officials as part of the independent counsel's request to expand his mandate to cover the Lewinsky matter. Snippets of the tape's contents have been reported by Newsweek's Michael Isikoff. But Mr. Isikoff has said his magazine got them without any help from the independent counsel's office. And most of the FBI tape remains secret, because Mr. Starr has kept it that way.  Second, grand jury testimony. Vernon Jordan, a key witness in the case, says that he has testified "truthfully, honestly and to the best of my ability" before one of Mr. Starr's grand juries. But no one knows what Mr. Jordan said inside the federal courthouse because Mr. Starr has kept it a secret. (Mr. Jordan has chosen not to detail his testimony.) Likewise, nothing has been published about the substance of the testimony of White House aides Sidney Blumenthal, Marsha Scott, John Podesta and many others, because Mr. Starr keeps it tightly under wraps.   
