19820721
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich., July 20— Negotiators for the United Automobile Workers union and the Chrysler Corporation began talks today on a new contract in which production workers expect to regain some of the concessions they made in the company's brush with bankruptcy in 1979 and 1980.  Douglas A. Fraser, the president of the union, noted that Chrysler's financial position had improved, with a profit of $107 million reported for the second quarter of this year. ''Now is the time for Chrysler workers to begin the long, long road back to wage equity and parity with Ford and G.M,'' he said.  Company officials have indicated that they are willing to reinstate some of the pay and benefits forgone by the union, such as cost-ofliving adjustments, but have said they will try to keep the advantage in labor costs that Chrysler enjoys over its two domestic rivals. 'Bottom Line in Sight'  ''We will rearrange money in the labor package,'' said Thomas W. Miner, Chrysler's vice president for industrial relations. ''But we are going to keep the bottom line in sight.''  Both sides will be operating under constraints imposed by the Federal Government, which guaranteed the $1.2 billion in loans that kept the company alive. The Chrysler Loan Guarantee Board, set up under the Treasury Department, has the authority to review major financial steps by the company.  Nevertheless, Mr. Fraser said that the union could expect to make gains in the talks, a contrast with the contracts renegotiated earlier this year that resulted in concessions estimated at $2.5 billion at General Motors and $1 billion at Ford. Expiration Will Be Sept. 14  The company is due to respond to the union's opening statement Wednesday, and then the talks are expected to settle into slow-paced discussions until the Sept. 14 expiration date of the current contract approaches. Both union and company officials have said that a strike is unlikely. The union represents 58,000 production and white-collar employees at Chrysler.  Chrysler workers made two rounds of concessions in late 1979 and 1980 under prodding from the Federal Government as a condition for the loans. They gave up paid days off and cost-of-living increases that saved the company more than $1 billion. Mr. Fraser said the lost inflation adjustments would be worth $1,100 a quarter to each worker if they had been paid as scheduled.  Mr. Fraser said he was aware that Chrysler's financial recovery was still tentative and that automobile sales were still in a slump. ''If Chrysler takes a tumble, what's the use of having a contract that pays $25 an hour?'' he asked.  The union also hopes to win so-called ''lifetime employment'' for workers at one or more Chrysler plants. The union has said its ultimate goal is to substitute attrition for mass layoffs.  Illustrations: photo of Thomas Miner and Douglas Fraser 
