19810915
Car 10XR was patrolling an area of Detroit heavily infested by narcotics when the call came in. A man had been seen hiding a bag believed to contain narcotics behind a bush. Car 10XR was closest to the scene. Bobby Butkines, Car 10XR's driver, is a traffic enforcement officer with the 10th Precinct of the Detroit Police Department. He responds to all accidents, and of cours e to any officer-in-tr ouble runs.  On his eight-hour shifts, Officer Butkines often drives with a reservist, a civilian volunteer who needs to be protected. ''I respect how important he is to the city and to so many people,'' Officer Butkines says of the passenger and occasional codriver whom he has had for the last eight months.  On this call, almost four months ago, Officer Butkines and his partner searched the area but could find nothing. Officer Butkines questioned a woman who lived at the address given on the report. ''She just didn't know anything,'' he said in a recent interview. ''She just didn't see anything.  ''All of a sudden, she noticed that Thomas Hearns was standing there.'' Different Work Clothes  Thomas Hearns, in police uniform and wearing his .357 Magnum, is not so arresting a figure as he is in his regular work clothes. In boxing trunks, wearing eight-ounce gloves and an icy stare, he may make even Sugar Ray Leonard's heart beat a little faster tomorrow night.  The woman recognized Hearns, Detroit's biggest hero since Mark Fidyrich talked to baseballs. ''Hey, I'll show you where everything's at,'' she said. ''She took us to this rock, and underneath there's a brown paper bag which contained 20 or 25 packs of suspected narcotics,'' Officer Butkines said. ' 'She just spilled her guts. She wouldn't tell me anything. She told it all to Thomas. At least for that day, we hurt the narcotics trade.''  Tomorrow night, then, Leonard will have his first brush with the law, meeting his fellow world welterweight champion to unify the title in Las Vegas, Nev. Leonard will earn more than $10 million, Hearns slightly more than $5 million.  ''I think we're going to have a million-dollar baby who wants to be a police officer,'' Officer Butkines said. Unusual Size and Reach  Men of Hearns's wealth don't wind up on police forces although Hearns is a rather unusual 22-year-old millionaire. His manager and trainer, Emanuel Steward, and Leonard characterize him as a freak because of his size and reach - 6 feet 1 inch of rod-like muscle with a 78 1/2-inch wingspan worthy of a small plane.  He is a cold-eyed knockout puncher who, in the ring, doesn't ''care about the other fighter'' but who, after the knockout, ''when you're supposed to be feeling good, I feel sad about it, wondering if the man is O.K.''  He is an athlete of enormous physical talent, a feared puncher, who as a scrawny child ''had to work up my nerve to ask to get in the neighborhood football games.''  ''I used to end up on the bottom of the piles,'' he said the other day in his Caesars Palace hotel suite, ''and when I would hit a guy he'd just keep on going and drag me along. When I was 10, I didn't think there were any sports for me.''  Now, undefeated in 32 professional fights, with 30 knockouts, he cannot believe anyone can beat him. It was not always that way. ''When I was young,'' he said, ''it seemed I always had to fight guys much better than I was. I was basically just a one-two, one-two fighter.'' In the past, he feared nothing but failure. ''I used to think,'' hesaid, '' 'What if I lose to this guy? What wi ll people think of me?' '' Success took care of that worry. He Says What He Means  He is a blunt, no-nonsense person who doesn't waste syllables. While on his publicity tour for tomorrow's fight, he was asked by a Black Muslim in Harlem, ''Are you spiritual?'' He looked at the man with the same glare he uses in the ring, then answered, ''No.''  He is a physical person, who likes the combat of boxing and of wrestling with Steward and friends when they least expect it. ''I knew he was getting stronger when he jumped on my back, just like he always does, and I couldn't throw him off,'' Steward said.  He is also introspective, someone who likes to take long solitary walks to think things out. In Las Vegas, waiting for the fight, he has been caged in a hotel suite. His walks, he said, are ''from there to there,'' and he pointed to two opposite walls.  He is a product of Detroit's East Side ghetto, a quiet kid neighbors remember only for his dedication to boxing. School over, Hearns would hop a series of buses to go to the West Side to be trained by Steward at the Kronk Gymnasium. Training over, he would return home and work out in the backyard or in the basement. Steward says he never thought the 11-year-old Hearns would amount to much as a boxer, but he was impressed with the youngster's determination and fearlessness.  ''Thomas is scared of nobody,'' Steward said. He realized there was no way he would prevent Hearns from being a volunteer policeman. Here's a man, risking millions of dollars, doing dangerous work for nothing. ''That's Tommy,'' Steward said. A Friend of the Police 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
