20060413
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Tastings: Hidden Treasures in Ports of Call; How to Include Fine Wines On Your Cruise Itinerary; Defining a 'Dumb Period'   By Dorothy J. Gaiter and John Brecher, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 14, 2006  We were even luckier in St. Thomas. At one of those tourist stores featuring duty-free liquor, jewelry and aggressive hawkers outside ("Fire sale!" said one. "Because I will be fired if you don't come inside"), there was a small selection of wine, most of it ordinary. But one bottle caught our eye: Louis Jadot Saint-Romain, a white Burgundy ($21.95). Saint-Romain is a small village and we don't often see wines from there, and we weren't sure we'd ever seen the Jadot. We talked about it and then, incredibly, left it behind because we didn't want to carry it with us. Later, back on the ship, Dottie had nonbuyer's remorse, so she left the ship, took a shuttle back into town and bought it. While the ship was confiscating liquor brought back on board, the crew assured us that we could bring back a single bottle of wine to consume on the ship. No one blinked when Dottie presented her bottle to be scanned.  UNUSUAL STUFF: As usual, we took treasures from our own wine collection on board to enjoy with the ship's dinners (check with your cruise line before you do this) and the staff graciously opened them each night, for $10 corkage. The best was a 1989 Bordeaux, Chateau Haut-Marbuzet from Saint-Estephe, which was beautiful -- rich, with deep-flavored fruit and heavenly smells of cedar and sandalwood. It was fully mature, offering the kind of relaxed, majestic wisdom that only comes from age. The most surprising wine, though, was a 1995 Lafite Rothschild. When we first tried this wine as part of a first- growth tasting for this column in 1998, we disagreed so thoroughly that we wrote separate indexes. The Lafite was Dottie's favorite. She called it "an incredibly intense experience." It was [John]'s second- least favorite. He wrote of it: "Green and a bit harsh." Eight years later, who would prevail?  Readers sometimes ask us what wine experts mean when they talk about a "dumb period." Some fine wines, as they age, go through a phase -- after their youthful exuberance has calmed but before their components have melded into a more mature whole -- when they simply taste blah. They seem withdrawn and lifeless, much like some human teenagers. It is impossible to know when any particular bottle will go through this phase. For this wine, the time was now. Through two hours of tasting and cajoling, the Lafite, which had been lovingly cellared since it was released, remained largely tasteless. We could sense, deep down, some class and fruit, but it took a great deal of effort. Maybe it's just that John was right -- imagine that! -- but we think the wine, for now, simply didn't show up for work. We're eager to taste this again in about five years. We'll report back then.   
