19941117
MORE than five decades after advertising for Maxwell House last overlooked Times Square, the coffee brand will drop back into the neighborhood.  General Foods USA, which markets Maxwell House, plans to unveil an extravagant neon billboard -- the type that makers of outdoor signs call spectaculars -- on New Year's Eve, during the hullabaloo greeting the arrival of 1995. The ad will join others on the exterior of the Marriott Marquis Hotel on Broadway; it will be erected on the building's 46th Street side, around the corner from gaudy, glitzy billboards for Eastman Kodak and Hertz.  Maxwell House's second sign in Times Square, measuring 40 feet high by 60 feet wide, will echo the first, which according to company records stood from 1928 to 1939 about a block north of Duffy Square. The traditional touches include the brand's longtime slogan, "Good to the last drop."  The high-tech touches will include a translucent, three-dimensional coffee cup, 20 feet in diameter, and the rendering of Maxwell House's familiar final drip in a neon cascade to simulate an endless descent -- an eternal drop, as it were, ever falling, ever good.  The Maxwell House comeback is emblematic of the changing Times Square ad landscape. Improvements in the area's economic and physical health are helping to transform the lineup of marketers planting, or replanting, their brands' banners there.  During the 1970's and 1980's, when Times Square's bleak, shabby appearance discouraged visitors and residents alike, signs for American household-name products were supplanted by billboards promoting Japanese and Korean brands like Canon, Goldstar, JVC, Minolta, Samsung and Sony. They were lured by the international approbation for Times Square's image as the colorful "crossroads of the world," which still gleamed despite its dimming domestically.  But now, as the neighborhood's fortunes seem on the ascent, companies based in this country -- including Gap Inc., Hertz, Jockey, Kodak, Levi Strauss, NBC and Sara Lee -- are demonstrating a new, or renewed, willingness to associate themselves with Times Square.  Not only is Times Square "the heartbeat of New York," said Ann Marks, Maxwell House's vice president for marketing at the General Foods USA unit of Kraft General Foods in White Plains, "it's a national focal point."  And many of the brands whose signs are illuminating Times Square "are classic American brands," she added, "and that's what we consider Maxwell House." The coffee was introduced in 1892; it was New York's top-selling brand by 1925 and, Ms. Marks said, it still is (though nationally it is outsold by Folgers).  George Stonbely, president at Spectacolor, the New York company that specializes in spectaculars and is designing Maxwell House's, said: "The American companies see that the kind of presence they can have for their products and services in Times Square is unique. You can't get that tremendous size and impact on TV."  "It's no secret Times Square was really in the doldrums for many years," he added. "But starting with the Marriott Marquis in 1985, the area has gone through a boom. And the signs parallel the re-emergence of Times Square as a great entertainment center."  Spectacolor will lease and maintain the sign, which is being built by the Artkraft Strauss Sign Corporation in New York, the constructor of many spectaculars like the recently dismantled neon Joe Camel billboard for Camel cigarettes.  Neither Ms. Marks nor Mr. Stonbely would disclose the cost of the Maxwell House sign. But millions of dollars are required to build such a sign, lease the space under a multiyear contract, operate the sign and maintain it.  One difference between the old and new signs is that while the Maxwell House name and the "last drop" slogan will be back, the word "coffee" will be absent, perhaps on the premise that after 55 additional years of consumers' exposure to Maxwell House marketing, it would be redundant.  Plans for the spectacular's unveiling include a live radio broadcast, Ms. Marks said, reminiscent of the initial lighting of the first sign. That took place during a live broadcast of a radio program sponsored by Maxwell House and featured the brand's founder, Joel Cheek.  The plans also call for giving out free cups of Maxwell House to the New Year's Eve revelers, she added, in connection with a fund-raiser to assist the homeless and the charitable organization Habitat for Humanity.  For those who insist that Maxwell House is not their cup of coffee, the brand's sign won't be the only java jive in Times Square.  The Maxwell House spectacular will be across the street from a huge painted coffee cup that emits mock steam to promote the Eight O'Clock brand of bean coffee sold at supermarket chains including A.& P. That sign is on the southeast corner of 46th Street and Seventh Avenue.  Photos: Maxwell House will return to Times Square on New Year's Eve with a neon "spectacular," above, on the Marriott Marquis Hotel. The sign will echo its ad of more than five decades ago, left, which stood about a block north. (The Bettmann Archive) 
