19810527
WASHINGTON, May 26— They will make Charles Elkins move out of his office before long. They will take away his 143-member staff, his subscription to Sound and Vibration magazine and the desk where he keeps his ear protectors. They have already begun revoking some of the Federal regulations he worked to enact, including one that limits the noise of garbage trucks.  ''We had planned to regulate jackhammers as well,'' Mr. Elkins, who directs the Environmental Protection Agency's noise program, observed glumly the other day. ''We just haven't gotten there yet.''  For five years, Charles Elkins dreamed of a world where motorcycles and jackhammers would purr as quietly as kittens. But Reagan Administration officials and some members of Congress have other ideas.  As part of their cuts in Federal spending, regulation and employment, they plan not only to revoke many of Mr. Elkins's antinoise regulations but also to eliminate his $13 million office as well.  ''I don't find it pleasant, no,'' Mr. Elkins said. Photo With Nixon as President  He was standing in his attractive office, wearing a beige shirt, beige tie and beige pants. Outside his door, a sign below his name read ''Deputy Assistant Administrator for Noise Control Programs.'' Inside, the burnt orange carpet harmonized with the bright green chairs and yellow couch, and the windows offered a panoramic view of Virginia. On a wall hung a picture of Mr. Elkins with Richard Nixon at the White House.  ''Do you mind if I record this?'' he asked, leaning over and setting a tape recorder on the table. It has taken Mr. Elkins 14 years of Government work to get this office and the $50,100 annual salary that goes with it. He explained that he did not want to risk being misquoted on something that might displease his superiors and cost him his job.  ''After all,'' he said nervously, ''It's a new President.'' Then he sat down near the tape recorder and launched into the language peculiar to Washington bureaucrats, speaking rapidly of ''regs,'' meaning regulations, that were ''promulgated'' in his years in Government.  Mr. Elkins said he came into the Government in the Johnson Administration in 1967, a time when it seemed that Federal regulations could solve almost anything. He worked first in the Office of Management and Budget, then moved to the fledgling Environmental Protection Agency. In 1972, Congress enacted the Noise Control Act, which required the agency to identify and regulate major sources of noise. A few years later, Mr. Elkins was named head of the antinoise office. An Ear Tuned to the Street  And suddenly, noise became Charles Elkins's life. Street sounds of which he was previously unaware, a passing motorcycle, a jackhammer biting into pavement, now irritated him. He studied the decibel levels of power lawnmowers, air conditioners and trucks.  He wrestled with the tough questions. Was 84 decibels too loud for motorcycles? Was 80 decibels unrealistically soft? What do motorcycle manufacturers think?  ''Harley-Davidson didn't want to make one that sounded like a sewing machine,'' he recalled. After a while, Mr. Elkins took great satisfaction in helping promulgate crisp new antinoise regs. Before long there were Federal regulations limiting the noise of garbage trucks, motorcycles, railroad trains, semi-tractor-trailers and portable air compressors. And that was just the start. An Abrupt Halt in February  ''We were planning to move to other consumer items,'' he said. ''Lawnmowers, air-conditioners.'' Mr. Elkins said his staff was also studying bulldozers, vacuum cleaners and chain saws. ''A lot of people complained about refrigerators,'' he mused. ''I don't know if we would have done anything about that.''  But on Feb. 16, the Washington's Birthday holiday, Mr. Elkins's plans came to a halt. At 2 P.M. he was called at home and told that the Reagan Administration was going to abolish the program.  ''I must admit,'' he said, ''the next three hours were among the most difficult of my life.'' The next morning Mr. Elkins called a meeting of his staff members and told them the bad news; news similar to that being conveyed in many other agencies. The staff would be cut to 45 persons by Sept. 1. The budget would be cut from $13 million this year to $2.3 million in 1982. And the entire office would be shut by Oct. 1, 1982.  ''So now if people ask me what's happening with the program,'' he said, ''I tell them the program is going out of business in 18 months. And that's the way I'm running things.''  These days, the week-at-a-glance datebook propped on Mr. Elkins's desk is less crowded than it used to be. The people from the trucking companies do not drop around anymore.  ''I'm looking at some of my office machines to see if I can get rid of them,'' he said. ''I don't need two Xerox machines. I don't need many typewriters.'' He Weighs His Words With Care  How does he feel, seeing his program abolished? He paused, weighing his words carefully. He has not survived into a fifth Administration by talking to reporters about his feelings. Finally, he replied: ''Yes, I have personal feelings on it. But I'm not the President. I wasn't elected.'' Mr. Elkins said he was ''looking around outside'' for another post, but he clearly would like to stay on at the Environmental Protection Agency. His job is not protected by Civil Service, but the agency could place him in another position there or elsewhere. 
