19810612
THE other day, George Hamilton skyed in from the coast, as S.J. Perelman used to say. Mr. Hamilton was on his way to London to make a movie with George Segal (if another strike doesn't happen, and the directors don't go out) and he stopped briefly in New York. Just long enough to talk about ''Zorro, the Gay Blade,'' which will open here in mid-July.  In ''Zorro,'' Mr. Hamilton looks like what your grandma used to call a lounge lizard. Small black moustache, slick polished hair and a slightly crazed glint in the bedroom eyes. In life, his 42 years sit lightly on Mr. Hamilton, who has come into his own as an entrepreneur-farceur after more than two decades of acting dopey playboys.  Doing the Zorro remake, in the role played in years past by both Douglas Fairbanks and Tyrone Power, was Mr. Hamilton's own idea. ''After 'Love at First Bite,' '' he says, ''I wanted to do a swashbuckling picture that made light of, yet had a reverence for, all those pictures I grew up seeing - 'The Corsican Brothers,' 'The Scarlet Pimpernel,' 'Mutiny on the Bounty.' ''  Lure the kids, but don't offend the generation that loved the old movies; that was the plan. In ''Zorro, the Gay Blade,'' Mr. Hamilton stars as Don Diego Vega, heir to the Zorro legend, and also as his long-lost twin brother, Ramon (a.k.a. Bunny Wigglesworth), a terrible fop. This allows Mr. Hamilton to do his Spanish accent, and his English accent, both excellent, right up there, in fact, with his Transylvanian accent.  ''I love that kind of stuff,'' he says. ''I've always wanted to be the sort of actor that Peter Sellers was.'' Mr. Hamilton started in the movie business at 17, but says it took ''Love at First Bite'' to wash out all the pictures that preceded it. ''I'm a born-again actor. But I think if I hadn't started producing and marketing, getting involved in almost every area, I would never have lasted. My career was over many times. I was kicked out of three of four studios. Being under contract in the days when I came up wasn't a godsend. If they had you, they thought, well, we've always got him, but who else can we get?''  As for television, Mr. Hamilton, who starred in one series, ''The Survivors'' by Harold Robbins (he calls it ''a huge expensive failure''), decided very quickly that it wasn't for him. ''It's a graveyard for movie stars. If you're lucky, you stay with a series for a bit, and then it's over for you, and you're up for guest shots. TV is a monster, it's going to eat you up.''  Mr. Hamilton says he developed his comedy timing by working on stage. ''I did a lot of plays. Mainly Neil Simon. You don't learn comedy in films. There is no rhythm set. You have no feedback.''  Since he's clearly intelligent, not to mention resourceful, does Mr. Hamilton mind that his public image has been that of a handsome ninny who chased starlets?  No he doesn't. ''I think one of the great things in life is being underestimated,'' he says. ''I've always liked to fight out of a corner. When things are going well, I just drift along and stare out of the window and watch paint dry. I don't focus. But when the odds are against me, the adrenalin starts. What I've learned is not to put up with much bull. I've heard a lot of it, dealt in it, traded it, given out a lot of it in my time. It's a commodity we'll never run short of. But what I really like to do now is cut through all that, and say what I mean.''  At present, Mr. Hamilton considers himself a resident of Colorado. ''I live up in Aspen; there's something almost magical about Aspen. They have a think tank. The greatest minds come there. In summer, the best musicians in the world play there. And in winter, the Europeans who used to go to St. Moritz and Val-d'Isere ski there. Because it's cheaper, and it's more exciting to them. Aspen is overrun by Italians wearing cowboy hats and boots now. It's funny, it's a game.''  The series of independent films that has been running at the Art Theater since March is ending with ''The Dark End of the Street,'' which is playing through next Tuesday. It's a picture that one critic called ''a powerful and completely uncondescending view of workingclass people.'' It was shot in and around North Cambridge, Mass., and a remarkable 21-year-old actress named Laura Harrington plays Donna, the female lead.  Donna is a street kid. She lives with her mother, brother and sisters, works in a doughnut shop, takes hair-styling courses, has a boyfriend with a record. Laura Harrington was not a street kid. Her father was a university professor. ''A kind of outrageous humanist,'' she says. ''He started the protest for open housing, in Ann Arbor, Mich. When I was small, I'd go down and march in front of the state capitol with a sign saying 'We Shall Overcome.' I would stand five feet behind my father, and pretend I was black.''  Professor Harrington switched from school to school, getting, involved in protests against the war in Vietnam, and the bombings in Cambodia and the destruction of the environment, and always being pressured by the authorities to move along to some other place. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
