19961127
Pete Hamill, a novelist, former newspaper columnist and, for just five weeks in 1993, editor of The New York Post, was named editor of The Daily News yesterday, putting the editorial reins of the newspaper back into the hands of someone with deep roots in New York City.  Mr. Hamill, who is scheduled to begin his new job in early January, will replace Martin Dunn, a Briton who served as the tabloid newspaper's editor for three years, until last month.  Shortly after announcing Mr. Hamill's appointment yesterday, Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the owner of The News, praised him in a telephone interview as ''a unique New York individual,'' emphasizing Mr. Hamill's familiarity with the city and with its newspapers.  ''He's the child of immigrants, grew up in New York, knows this city inside and out, and knows this paper,'' Mr. Zuckerman said. ''We want to be the voice of New York.''  Mr. Hamill, speaking yesterday in a voice that left no doubt about his excitement, echoed that aspiration. ''I think the paper in general should have a tone that more reflects the city, that's ironic and witty,'' Mr. Hamill said.  Mr. Hamill's appointment marks the latest twist in the roller-coaster fortunes of The Daily News during the 1990's, a rocky ride that has included a debilitating strike, changes of ownership, the rapid comings and goings of many top editors, a precipitous drop in circulation and, more recently, a steady climb back to prominence and profitability.  Several staff members said yesterday that the imminent arrival of Mr. Hamill symbolized the newspaper's commitment to continue rebuilding and improving itself.  ''After a decade of plagues, locusts, fire and famine, now it's time to feast,'' said Jim Dwyer, a News columnist. ''This paper was going downhill in reverse for a long time. Now it has gone through a long process of braking, and it's started to climb back uphill.''  Mr. Hamill, 61, harks back to a different time in New York journalism, when it was known for producing hard-drinking -- and predominantly male -- street columnists who flaunted their gruff, idiosyncratic styles. Since then, the city and its newsrooms have changed markedly, and even Mr. Hamill now lives outside the five boroughs, upstate in Ulster County.  Mr. Hamill grew up in Brooklyn with Irish immigrant parents and began his career in 1960 as a reporter at The Post. He subsequently worked on and off for The Post, The Daily News and New York Newsday, most famously as the author of columns that sought to capture the particular flavors of New York City's politics and sports and the particular pathos of its crime. He also wrote novels, essays and magazine articles.  In 1993, during the bizarre period when Abe Hirschfeld took control of The Post, Mr. Hamill was its editor for a little more than a month, at one point leading a staff revolt against Mr. Hirschfeld.  Before New York Newsday closed in the summer of 1995, he wrote a weekly column for that newspaper; since then, he has focused on his own writing projects.  Mr. Hamill said that his first order of business now is to find an apartment in New York. ''I think tabloids are best edited when you feel like you're double-parked,'' Mr. Hamill said, ''but I don't think homeless shelters or Y.M.C.A.s are the right place.''  His second order of business, he said, is to visit the Daily News building and ''find out what floor the city room's on.''  ''They moved it since the last time I worked there,'' he said.  Photo: Pete Hamill was jubilant yesterday after being named the new editor of The Daily News. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 
