19981103
 Theater: Uptown Ladies; West Side Boys   By By Donald Lyons, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 4, 1998  What gets the drama going is a new roomer, handsome young Husband Witherspoon, a rube just up from South Carolina. Quilly (McGrath) (a brilliant, lived-in performance by Lynda Gravatt) is touchy and uncomfortable (she's just back from a funeral and eager to get out of her girdle) and suspicious of the new lodger. Husband has come north in pursuit of his down-home heartthrob, Lou Bessie. As acted with flamboyant and merciless sass by Rosalyn Coleman, Lou Bessie, who has rechristened herself Charmayne, has become a hot number intent on using Husband's money to sample the joys of Harlem nightlife. Half-bewitched by Lou Bessie, Husband is equally entranced by the gentle ways of Elizabeth (Borny); together the two recall the smell of the grass back home and the sounds of the rural churches at night. They sing a soft spiritual and go out for a rare late-night dinner. Despite Lou Bessie's taunting of Elizabeth as an "old settler," or spinster, Husband and Elizabeth are lovers by the end of the first act. Leslie Uggams depicts with quiet economy and tenderness the thawing of Elizabeth; Godfrey L. Simmons Jr. keeps the goofy, caricatural possibilities of Husband in check and gives us a decent, bewildered youth.  The second act sees Elizabeth and Husband dolled up to run off to South Carolina; he sports a baggy red zoot suit and has had his hair conked and brilliantined (Quilly: "Why ain't you in the Army?"; Husband: "The whites would shoot me"; Quilly: "Looking like you do, I would too"). Quilly, while making up for church -- a vital element in these sisters' lives -- preaches to her infatuated sister the cautious realities of age and sex-drive and family. Embittered by Quilly's having married, long ago, the man she loved, Elizabeth won't listen. So Quilly plants herself downstage reading a newspaper and rebuffs her sister's farewell gestures. The radio plays "Don't Fence Me In" and the Andrews Sisters, pop promises of happiness. Then, in a tableau reminiscent of the desertion scene in "The Heiress," Elizabeth sits waiting until dawn for a no-show fiance.   
