20070513
 The Morning Brief: Cerberus to Get Chrysler, And All Its Baggage Online edition  By Schuman, Joseph, The Wall Street Journal,  May 14, 2007  If approved by regulators and DaimlerChrysler's supervisory board, the deal would see the creation of a new entity that gets all the Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep and finance operations of what we know as Chrysler. Cerberus will put up $7.4 billion and get 80.1% of the new company, with DaimlerChrysler holding on to the rest. And $1.35 billion of Cerberus's money will go to the German parent now bereft of the U.S. unit that once gave it such high globalizing hopes. As the Detroit News notes, in 1998 Daimler-Benz had hoped to revolutionize the industry by combining its luxury vehicles with Chrysler's mass- market products "and pave the way for more international alliances." Instead, the combined DaimlerChrysler "was never able to hit on all cylinders," especially with Chrysler's profit-and-loss roller coaster contributing to its diminishing share of the U.S. market.  Chrysler is part of a much bigger Detroit story, and a key quote in DaimlerChrysler's statement today was the following: "The Chrysler Group's financial obligations for pension and healthcare benefits towards its employees and the employees of the financial services business related to the Chrysler Group will be retained by the Chrysler companies." Another key quote was released on behalf of Ron Gettelfinger, president of the United Autoworkers union: "The transaction with Cerberus is in the best interest of our membership, the Chrysler Group and Daimler." Until today, the UAW and organized labor in general have been vocally opposed to the notion of private- equity firms getting involved in the auto business and specifically the idea of one buying Chrysler, as the Detroit Free Press reports. Like crosstown rivals General Motors and Ford Motor, Chrysler has troubles on two fronts. A growing share of buyers are more attracted to the offerings of Toyota Motor and other Japanese car makers. And the more intractable problem: the long roster of retired auto workers whose pension and health-care costs can't be perpetually offset by the paycheck contributions of what's now a much smaller work force.  DaimlerChrysler today took pains to say that Chrysler's pension plans are "significantly over-funded at present." But as the Los Angles Times points out, Chrysler "is saddled with more than $18 billion in unfunded retiree health-care obligations." It will be interesting to watch how Mr. Gettelfinger's assurances are reconciled with Cerberus's understandable aim of getting more than its money's worth from Chrysler. "Chrysler has estimated that Japanese auto makers like Toyota Motor Corp. enjoy a labor-cost advantage of as much as $30 an hour," The Wall Street Journal notes, and "Cerberus has a record of slashing costs at operations it acquires." Some observers expect that under Cerberus control, Chrysler, which already plans to cut 13,000 jobs, or 16% of its work force, will move even more aggressively to cut labor costs. "But any final deal for Chrysler also hinges on what happens this summer, when the United Auto Workers kicks off negotiations for new master contracts with all three Detroit auto companies," the Journal adds.   
