19811201
WASHINGTON, Nov. 30— Newspaper readers have probably seen pictures of Maj. Gen. Carl R. Smith a dozen times over the past couple of years without being aware of it. But today, if the pattern holds, may be the only time his name appears in the paper.  General Smith, a soft-spoken, discreet Air Force officer, is the military assistant to the Secretary of Defense, Caspar W. Weinberger. He is the man often seen sitting behind the Secretary at Congressional hearings or in the background at other public appearances.  As the senior office in a small but highly influential corps of military assistants in the Pentagon, General Smith prefers to stay out of the spotlight. It is a trait common to those nameless and faceless officers assigned to help the top political officials in the Defense Department.  Military assistants are the grease in the complicated machinery of the Pentagon. They ease the transition from an outgoing to an incoming official and from one administration to another. They attend to a multitude of details in getting a new official started, teach him the ways of the Pentagon, and eventually become policy advisers. Knowing How to Get Things Done  Most of all, military assistants must know where to get information and how to make things happen for their bosses in the military departments, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the National Security Council, Capitol Hill and outside the Government.  ''It's the guys who know the alleys and the sewers who get things done,'' said a military assistant. Another asserted that it was vital to ''keep wired into the net'' among the military assistants themselves. ''When I first took this job,'' he said, ''it took seven phone calls to get something. Now I've got it down to three.''  Several of the highest officials, such as Mr. Weinberger, rate two military assistants, usually savvy young generals or admirals in their late 40's. Assistant secretaries rate one apiece, most often a bright colonel or Navy captain bound for bigger things.  Military assistants are essential to continuity. General Smith, for instance, was former Secretary of Defense Harold Brown's military assistant for two years but stayed on at Mr. Weinberger's request. Others are named by the new officials but have usually been on duty in the Pentagon for a couple of years and thus know their ways around. The Path Through the Maze  Among a military assistant's first duties is to show the new boss the way through the maze of corridors in the Pentagon. Then there are badges to get, parking places to be assigned, medical forms to fill out. ''You just have to look after your guy,'' sighed a military assistant.  One military assistant guided a new appointee to a luncheon, then left, thinking he could find his way back. But the new official, whom the military assistant asked not be identified, got lost and came back 30 minutes late, shamefaced after having had to ask for directions to his own office.  At the same time, ''there is a certain amount of fundamental education in the military system for the new guy on the block,'' said a military assistant. ''You have to teach him a new language,'' meaning the jargon of the Pentagon and military acronyms. The Pentagon-published dictionary of such terms is 377 pages long and ranges from ''abac scale'' to ''zulu time.''  Civilian officials also have to be taught how to handle confidential documents. A military assistant, seeing his new boss heading for home with a sheaf of papers with bright red covers marked ''Secret,'' had to remind him tactfully that they could not be taken from the Pentagon. The Importance of Protocol  ''You have to tell him who the key players are in the building,'' said another military assistant, noting that protocol among senior generals and admirals is important. ''And you have to tell him who the charlatans are.''  As the months pass, a military assistant settles into being a combination of executive officer, military adviser, alter ego and aide, though some dislike the term ''aide'' since it often denotes a catch-all coat-holder and handyman for a general or admiral.  Much of the military assistant's influence comes from being the gatekeeper, deciding who will see his boss or which papers will go into the ''in'' box. General Smith said that a critical part of working for Mr. Weinberger was ''to know what he wants to decide for himself.''  Another military assistant said he functioned like an editor in screening papers. ''If the paper going to my boss doesn't say who, what, when, where, how and why, my job is to throw it back until it's done right,'' he said. Providing Protection  That puts the military assistant deep into the issues and the positions that his boss takes within the Pentagon hierarchy. ''I'm supposed to protect him,'' said an assistant to a policy-maker, ''and see that he doesn't get sandbagged or blind-sided.''  To be effective, several military assistants emphasized, they put a high priority on loyalty to their bosses and the offices they hold. That means not being seen as a channel for the particular service to which the military assistant belongs.  ''The services will pull the wool over the eyes of your boss unless the military assistant is wise to their ways,'' said one assistant. Said another: ''You also stay out of turf fights among your boss's subordinates or else you become part of the problem instead of helping to find a solution.''  The military assistants also seek to stay out of partisan politics, which is often difficult since they work for highly political officials appointed by the President and the Secretary of Defense.  The rewards for military assistants are substantial. They are able to see to formation of national security policy from the top, and to have a hand in it, a satisfaction not given to colonels leading brigades in the field or captains commanding cruisers at sea.  But they pay a price, mainly in having no control over their time and being at the whim of their bosses 24 hours a day. ''It's fun,'' said one military assistant, ''but guess who opens the doors in the morning and turns off the lights at night?''  Illustrations: photo of Carl R. Smith with Caspar Weinberger and David C. Jones 
