20040111
 Educating Paul O'Neill; Former Treasury Secretary Says His Advice Was Ignored As Cheney Dominated Policy   The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 12, 2004  THERE WERE SIGNS of trouble even before the [George W. Bush] team took over. During the transition, Treasury Secretary-designate O'[Neill] had his first-ever extended discussions with Mr. [Lawrence Lindsey], who had served as Bush's economics tutor and would head the National Economic Council. Mr. O'Neill found Mr. Lindsey astonishingly bleak. "Larry was sure that we were on the brink of disaster . . . and was convinced that deep tax cuts were the cure," Mr. O'Neill recalled. "Larry had grown up drinking the supply-side water," Mr. O'Neill said, meaning Lindsey believed that cutting tax rates spurs economic growth sufficient to stimulate offsetting tax revenue. But, Mr. O'Neill added, "He never mentioned this philosophy to me. I figured it was out of his system, [as with] most everyone else." Mr. O'Neill, a former deputy White House budget director, was more inclined to avoid budget deficits even if it meant forgoing tax cuts.  He marched to Mr. [Dick Cheney]'s office. "Dick, I think we need to talk," Mr. O'Neill said. He reasoned that Mr. Cheney would understand the importance of establishing sound processes to manage the White House and executive branch -- entities that were truly beyond human scale. Mr. O'Neill said that he was concerned that Mr. Lindsey was masquerading as the honest broker and was anything but. Without strongly positioned honest brokers and a rigorous, disinterested vetting of various proposals, Mr. O'Neill said, "all you've got are kids rolling around on the lawn."  ON SUNDAY, Feb. 10, Mr. O'Neill and Mr. [Alan Greenspan] went to the vice president's house for lunch. They sat in elegant wicker chairs on the sun porch while Mr. Cheney talked to them about steel. As Mr. O'Neill had warned the president in their very first meeting a year before, steel had become a problem. Mr. O'Neill's deep understanding of this industry from his days as chief executive of Alcoa had finally been tapped. There was dumping of steel onto the market by other countries, marked by so-called surges of lower-priced foreign steel. There were ways, Mr. O'Neill said, to get major steelmakers from the U.S. and overseas to the table to reduce the industry's excess capacity.   
