20030711
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Museums: Art Out of Sight; Museums Close Galleries, Trim Hours; Now Showing: Employee Art   By Barnes, Brooks, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 11, 2003  This summer, the big news at the nation's museums may be what you can't see. Like the entire Chinese art gallery at the Denver Art Museum, which now gets shut down after 5 p.m. some days, or the American paintings at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts (off-limits every Tuesday, along with the rest of the place). With institutions across the country facing their biggest budget problems in over a decade, they're being forced to try everything from leaving out-of- order interactive displays broken to cleaning galleries less often. Starting this month, Michigan's Public Museum of Grand Rapids, which just hosted a blockbuster exhibition of the Dead Sea Scrolls, won't open on Sundays and Mondays. Because of electricity costs, says Timothy Chester, the museum's director, "we literally can't keep the lights on."  Gallery closings have repercussions beyond visitors' disappointment at missing out on Tibetan devotional paintings, of course -- they're also causing headaches for tour operators and local merchants. Peg Mahoney, the owner of Showcase Associates, a Philadelphia company, says the recent decision by Delaware's Winterthur mansion to close on Mondays has "desolated" part of her tourism business. Instead of taking groups to Winterthur, which has one of the nation's greatest collections of Chippendale furniture and Paul Revere silver, Ms. Mahoney guides visitors through colonial homes of Philadelphia. "It's a letdown -- to say the least," she says. And restaurants near the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh say business is off as much as 50% on Tuesdays and Fridays now that the museum has scaled back its hours on those days.  Of course, for rich donors and key politicians, "closed" signs don't matter; beleaguered museum directors often arrange for a private tour on days a museum is closed. Want the rare privilege of sneaking into the Metropolitan Museum during deserted off-hours? For some special exhibitions, like its recent jaw-dropper "Manet/Velazquez," the privilege costs $50. That's a hefty markup over the usual $12 "suggested" entry fee, but it's pretty much just you and the masterpieces.   
