19810314
PRINCETON, N.J., March 13— Gene Mills, the 118-pound senior from Syracuse, pinned his opponent at the National Collegiate Athletic Association wrestling championships this afternoon and claimed he had set a record for career falls. Tonight, after he won another match by a decision, he changed his mind.  ''I went to my motel room to prepare for tonight's match and did some thinking,'' he said. ''I may have been wrong. The way my figures come out now, I believe I only have tied the collegiate record with 106 pins.''  The mark is officially held by Wade Schalles, who ended his wrestling career at Clarion (Pa.) State in 1973. He is now Clemson's varsity coach. Shalles, among those present today at the national championships, said he had no way of knowing whether his record had been matched. The N.C.A.A. does not keep season and career records.  According to Mills, he has won 138 collegiate contests, lost five and tied one. He says he gained his 106th fall by downing Tony Calderaio of Slippery Rock in 6 minutes 44 seconds in a quarterfinal match this afternoon. Mills Gains Final  In a semifinal match tonight he advanced to the final by beating Chris Wentz of North Carolina State on a decision, 30-4. He said it was the first time he failed to win by a fall in his last 13 outings.  ''Wentz proved very strong,'' said Mills, who is hoping to retain his national title tomorrow night when he meets John Hartupee of Central Michigan. ''I came close to getting him down several times. Now I'm hoping, in my last collegiate match tomorrow, to top Schalles's record for falls.''  ''Even if he does win on a pin tomorrow,'' said Bob Dellinger, the director of the National Wrestling Hall of Fame in Stillwater, Okla., ''his record will have to be documented before we can recognize it. Knowing Mills and his reputation for integrity, though, I have no reason to doubt his claim.'' Iowa Leads Team Standing  Ed Carlin, the Syracuse coach, said Mills's claim would be thoroughly researched. ''The first thing on the agenda when I return to Syracuse Monday,'' he said, ''is to have our sports public information people dig out the records and compile them. Gene deserves full credit for what he's accomplished.''  Iowa, the three-time champion, enhanced its chances to capture afourth straight team title by advancing five wrestlers to final matches among the 10 weight classes. Iowa led the team standing with 111.75 points. Among the Hawkeyes gaining the finals were the 21-year-old Banach twins, Ed and Lou, from Port Jervis, N.Y.  Oklahoma was second in the standing with three finalists and 78.25 points. The Oklahoma finalists were Andre Metzger (142 pounds) and brothers Mark Schultz (167) and Dave Schultz (158). 
