19810213
Everyone in fashion knows the Italians give the best parties - and stage the snappiest fashion shows. That's what has helped catapult Milan into its place as one of the world's fashion centers, along with Paris and New York, in just the last five years.  So when Bergdorf Goodman invited Aldo Pinto and his wife, Mariuccia Mandelli, to present their Krizia collection for spring and summer, the store knew it had a challenge. (Miss Mandelli designs the Krizia line; her husband is one of the key organizers of the Milan fashion week.) The problem was to show that New York was as inventive and high spirited as Milan.  The collection gave them the clue. Miss Mandelli, who is famous for animal motifs knitted into her sweaters and printed on her blouses, focused on elephants this time. Why not show the collection in the elephant room of the American Museum of Natural History? A contribution to the New York Zoological Society made the elephant room available.  Many guests, thoroughly familiar with the grandeur of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, hadn't set foot in the equally impressive building across Central Park since they took the children to see the dinosaurs. But they knew that African musicians, naked to the waist and wearing white cotton loincloths, were not usually part of the scene there. Nor were the towering palm fronds and the big straw baskets overflowing with peanuts that were served as hors d'oeuvres. People such as Consuela Crespi and Mariangela Melatto, the actress, lounged about the sculpture in the reception hall, munching on the nuts as they waited for the show to begin. A Setting of Grandeur  Joan Seifter, whose husband, Morton, manufactures men's hats, wearing a lame jacket and bloomers, chatted with Don Sayres and Frank Masandrea, designers who usually present their clothes in their Seventh Avenue showrooms and were awed with the grandeur of the setting. Louis Dell'Olio lamented that his co-designer at Anne Klein was home with the flu. Barbara Allen, who is a decorative part of the Halston entourage, was there and so was Mercedes Kellogg, a decorative member of the social set. Andy Warhol and his cronies turned up, so it was an official party.  Krizia contributed by bringing Nando Miglio, who always stages their shows in Milan, to serve as director. And so, on the raised runway set up to circle the horde of elephants, models wearing sweaters showing gray elephants with a red rose and elephants with blue birds perched on their heads, cavorted around the herd.  ''I'll have to get myself an elephant sweater,'' said Barbara Moss, a Bergdorf customer whose white Krizia pullover had a red rose on the shoulder.  ''Last year's,'' she explained. There were other styles too: tooled leather breastplates, snakeskin jackets, even plain white sweaters or jackets with navy pants. There were Miss Mandelli's bloused jackets with the pleats forming chevron patterns and her tops with the marvelously beaded birds.  ''If I'd known about this room, I would have made the entire collection elephants,'' she said afterward. ''New York is full of surprises.''  But the show was only the first part of the evening. For some 50 guests, dinner was a leisurely buffet in the Susan Caldwell art gallery on Wooster Street in SoHo, elegantly catered by Remember Basil - another surprise for Miss Mandelli.  The lemon souffle was served just before midnight, about the same time it would appear at one of the Pintos' parties in Milan. Those parties may soon have a New York flavor. After most of the guests went home, the Italian couple stayed on to talk about art and loft living with Susan Caldwell. They are redoing their home and Miss Mandelli was impressed with the flowing space and primary colors of the Caldwell headquarters. It was, she said, an ''incredibly exciting'' setting for modern living.  Illustrations: photos of fashions 
