19811205
On occasion a bridge player will wail to the nearest sympathetic ear, ''I was fixed.'' He does not mean that the result of the game was ''fixed'' in advance, nor, of course, is he using the word in any nefarious sense.  He is talking about a ''technical'' fix: His wretched opponent has done something technically unsound that just happened to succeed against the odds.  Consider this suit combination:  NORTH D A 8 6 5 2 WEST D K Q 4  EAST D 10 SOUTH D J 9 7 3 If South leads the jack, pinning the ten, East-West will cry ''fix.'' Any plausible play succeeds if the suit splits 2-2, or if West has a singleton honor. The crucial situations arise when East has a singleton honor. The play of the ace would have succeeded against a singleton king or queen, clearly twice as likely as a singleton ten.  A rather more subtle fix afflicted East-West on the diagramed deal, from tournament play. North-South climbed to six no-trump, which would have been an excellent contract if either player had held the diamond ten instead of a small diamond. As it was, the contract was terrible, and a slam in a minor suit would have been no better.  South adopted a foolish line of play. He won the opening spade lead in his hand and ran the diamond nine. When this lost to the king, he had no choice but to play the ace on the next round. East produced the queen in a bad temper, and it was all over.  After the session East screamed ''fix'' to anyone who would listen. His point was that South would have gone down if he had adopted the book play of leading low from dummy at the first opportunity. This gains whenever East has a doubleton that includes the ten. If the ten does not appear, South will lead the jack from his hand as soon as he can, pinning the ten.  All of which spawns an interesting reflection. If East has the forethought to play the ten from 10-x, he will frequently lead the declarer astray.  If that false card were common practice among good players, the declarers would have to consider changing to another and simpler plan: The lead of the ace immediately, which wins against a singleton king or queen with West, or a doubleton K-Q in either hand. NORTH (D) S 5 4 H A 5 D A 7 5 2 C A K 9 4 3 WEST EAST S Q J 10 8 7 2 S 9 6 H J 9 6 2 H 10 8 7 4 3 D 10 6 3 D K Q C - C J 8 6 5 SOUTH S A K 3 H K Q D J 9 8 4 C Q 10 7 2 Both sides were vulnerable. The bidding: North East South West 1 C Pass 1 D Pass 3 D Pass 4 N.T. Pass 5 S Pass 5 N.T. Pass 6 D Pass 6 N.T. Pass Pass Pass  West led the spade queen. 
