19810621
THE article ''L.I. to Feel Impact of Insurance Rise for Malpractice'' (June 7) was timely and important. The problem faced by physicians was exemplified in the quotations of the attorneys.  Vincent J. Hand, president of the Suffolk County Bar Association, stated that ''medical malpractice never occurs in the lawyer's office.'' Certainly no responsible physician or medical spokesman will disagree with this statement. However, medical malpractice suits do start in the lawyer's office.  Russell Corker, chairman of the Medical Jurisprudence Committee of the Nassau Bar Association, stated that ''Nassau County is a defendants' paradise. About 75 to 80 percent of cases tried on the Island are verdicts in favor of the physician.'' Unless he is comparing this with the ''workers' paradise'' of the Eastern European countries, I would doubt that he could find even a handful of innocent physician defendants who would agree that their appearance in court was a paradise.  That the institution of malpractice suits bears little relationship to the presence or absence of malpractice is borne out by the above statements.  However, the fact that 75 to 80 percent of the physicians are exonerated is the crux of the problem. The medical profession does not disagree that patients should be compensated for cases of actual malpractice. The problem is the overwhelming presence of unwarranted and frivolous suits.  If the plaintiffs are losing 75 to 80 percent of their cases, it should be obvious that their attorneys are either pursuing cases that they know have no merit in hope of obtaining a financial settlement before trial, or they are pursuing cases that do have merit but that they are handling in a negligent manner, suggesting perhaps that they are guilty of malpractice themselves.  The problem is one of preventing the institution of an overwhelming percentage of malpractice suits that are not malpractice, while allowing those that are malpractice. Unfortunately, physicians do not have it within their power to prevent these abuses. The ability to do so rests with responsible leaders of the legal profession, such as Mr. Corker and Mr. Hand, as well as with the Legislature.  Patients' rights can be protected without abusing not only physicians' rights, but also the already overloaded civil court system, and causing financial hardship not only to the physician but also to the taxpayer, whose taxes must finance the abused court system. m MARK I. PITMAN, M.D. Syosset --------------------------------------------------------------------- The Times welcomes letters from readers. Letters for publication should include the writer's name, address and daytime telephone number. Letters should be addressed to The Editor, Long Island Weekly Section, The New York Times, 229 W. 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. We regret that because of the large volume of mail received, we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters. 
