19860217
As part of the celebration marking the centennial of the automobile, Gerhardt Plattner, an Austrian motorist, thought he would go for a little spin. So he started out in Reno, Nev., at 3 o'clock in the morning on Jan. 29, heading for Los Angeles in a Porsche 944 Turbo. Plattner is due to arrive in New York later this month - by way of Australia, Asia, Europe and Africa.  By the time this latter-day Phineas Fogg completes his odyssey, he will have covered some 26,000 miles on the road, a greater distance than the circumference of the earth. His feat will have taken him just 31 days.  Plattner started in Reno because it is the home of Porsche's North American headquarters and because it is also the home of the Harrah's Auto Collection, which includes the 1907 Thomas Flyer that won the 1908 New York-to-Paris race. As well as demonstrating the durability of the Porsche and its components, Plattner is trying to publicize the collection's efforts to raise funds for a museum.  Its devotees have long sworn by Porsche as an excellent road machine. But it has never been known to do well at the bottom of the ocean, and so Plattner's car is being flown across the seas from continent to continent. Those air miles don't count in his total, however, and even when the time lost to such passage is figured in, the projected average speed for the journey - day in and day out - is nearly 35 miles per hour. By comparison, the Thomas Flyer needed 171 days to cover 13,341 miles, for an average speed of barely 3 m.p.h., a snail's-pace figure that is due partly to the fact that the Flyer had to be ferried by ship.  The transoceanic flights have afforded Plattner some time to get in a little rest, and, given his deserved reputation as an endurance driver, he can use it. He holds 24 long-distance records in his native Austria, and on a closed track he once averaged better than 150 m.p.h. for 24 hours.  Those credentials suggest that the car he's now driving is a perfect match for him. A 1986 model, it had more than 50,000 high-speed test miles on its odometer before it even started its global challenge. 
