20071111
 Energy (A Special Report) -- Producers; Expanding the Mined: How U.S. coal companies adapt to safety and environmental pressures may determine their future   By Dalton, Matthew, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 12, 2007  The MSHA has significantly increased its inspection and enforcement efforts, mine owners say. "The biggest impact more often not isn't the cost of a fine. It's how long the section is disrupted while the inspector's performing his job," Ben Hatfield, chief executive of International Coal Group Inc., in Scott Depot, W.Va., said on an October conference call with investors and analysts. A dozen miners were killed at International Coal's Sago Mine near Buckhannon, W.Va., in an accident in January 2006. Investigators attributed the disaster to a methane explosion ignited by lightning.  The House bill would also subject so-called "retreat mining" -- in which roof supports are removed and part of the mine is intentionally allowed to collapse -- to closer scrutiny from the MSHA. The Crandall Canyon mine had received approval to conduct retreat mining, though it's unclear whether the practice played a role in the mine's collapse. Among the bill's other provisions is a requirement for mine owners to install underground air refuges where miners can wait for help after a mine cave-in. Sen. Edward Kennedy has introduced similar legislation in the Senate.  The Army Corps of Engineers, which issued the mining permits, [Massey] and other miners have said they will appeal the ruling. Previously, the coal industry and the Corps have argued that courts should defer to the Corps's expertise on the environmental impacts of mountaintop mining. But this case and other pending litigation filed by environmental groups have, for the time being, limited surface mining in the Appalachian region. That leaves more market share for coal miners using other methods in other regions that don't have the environmental-permit problems of Massey and other central Appalachian producers. Those companies are Consol and other producers in Wyoming's Powder River Basin: Peabody Energy Co. and Arch Coal Inc., both based in St. Louis, and Foundation Coal Holdings Inc. of Linthicum Heights, Md. Consol owns mostly underground mines, while Wyoming miners get their coal from just below the state's rolling grasslands, without creating large amounts of rubble that contaminate streams.   
