20030611
 Congress Girds for Possible High Court Exit --- As Speculation Swirls, Senators Hasten Agenda to Clear Decks for a Nomination Fight   By By Robert S. Greenberger, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 12, 2003  With attention focused on the possible departure of either Chief Justice William Rehnquist or Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, lawmakers are clearing the decks to make room for a time-consuming confirmation brawl. The obsession over whether President Bush will get to appoint a new Supreme Court justice has prompted Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist to speed up action on the summer's toughest legislative issue: how to add a prescription-drug benefit to Medicare. Officials say the Tennessee Republican fears a Supreme Court confirmation fight will be so bitter it could paralyze the Senate for months.  Meanwhile, lawmakers are acting as if a Supreme Court resignation were imminent. The Senate Judiciary Committee, which would hold hearings on any Supreme Court nominee, already has begun preparing for such an event, which could tie up the panel for months. Chairman Orrin Hatch, a Utah Republican, angered some committee Democrats last month when he tried to push for a committee vote on a bill to deal with the nation's asbestos-litigation crisis. Democrats felt the panel hadn't yet reached a consensus on the complex legislation, and wanted to take more time.  The prospect of a nomination battle also cast its shadow over recent congressional passage of a bill outlawing so-called partial-birth abortion. The Senate rejected efforts to provide flexible exceptions to the ban, involving the health of the mother. The vote was a direct challenge to the Supreme Court, which in June 2000 struck down a Nebraska partial-birth abortion ban. In that decision, Justice O'Connor made clear that a health exception was one of the things that would make a ban on the procedure legal. Conservatives who support the ban believe it sets a litmus test for Supreme Court nominees' views on abortion.   
