19810825
WATERBURY, Conn.— ''Waterbury used to be known universally as the brass center of the world,'' said Frank Santaguida, a spokesman for the only surviving big mill here, Century Brass. ''Now it's known as a city between New York and Boston.''  Century Brass has laid off workers in recent years, and when unionized employees went on strike earlier this month, the company began the first steps toward liquidation. The strike was settled, however, and for now the jobs of the last 2,000 brass workers are safe.  But the ''Brass City,'' as Waterbury has long been known, is approaching the fate of nearby Danbury, the ''Hat City;'' Meriden, the ''Silver City,'' and New London, the ''Whaling City,'' as a place where the old staple of the economy has largely disappeared.  As a result, along with being between New York and Boston, Waterbury is between brass and new sources of prosperity, between the industrial stagnation endemic to northwestern Connecticut and the diversified modern industry it must have to survive.  The brass industry began here when Scovill started making buttons for uniforms during the Civil War. During World War II, a heavy demand for shell casings and other brass parts increased the industry's employment to about 20,000 and the population of the city to nearly 120,000.  But in 1980 the population was 103,260, down 4.5 percent from the previous census, and the unemployment level of more than 7 percent is above the state average.  Some of the brass industry has gone elsewhere, and some of it has just gone. Buttons are now made of plastic, as are ballpoint pens, water pipes and a thousand other things into which the sturdy metal was once shaped here.  Brass, an alloy of zinc and copper, is still used in many industries, but some of them, such as automobiles and housing, have been in a slump lately. Brass producers have also been hurt by technological innovations and Federal safety regulations that mandate modernization.  ''It's much more simple to go out and start brand-new factories,'' said Frank D. Fulco, president of the Chamber of Commerce.  If the city lacks a lively economy, it does not lack a vibrant political life. Residents point out that Waterbury is the city where a crowd of thousands -local legend says it was 50,000 -waited six hours on the Green until 3 A.M. one chilly night 21 years ago for Senator John F. Kennedy to arrive for a Presidential campaign appearance.  ''There were so many people there, there was so much body heat, when you went out you didn't need a jacket,'' said Mayor Edward D. Bergin Jr., whose father was then the Mayor. A plaque marks the balcony of the hotel from which Mr. Kennedy spoke.  It may be the only city in the state with two City Halls. Asked why, Mr. Bergin said: ''Republicans.'' Both of the buildings designed by Cass Gilbert were built around the end of World War I, one as the City Hall and the other, across Grand Street, as the corporate headquarters of Chase Brass.  After Chase moved out in the late 1960's, a Republican mayor bought the building and moved his office and some other city agencies into it.  Scovill Inc., a successful brass manufacturer for a century, has diversified, with 83 plants around the world and a striking, modernistic corporate headquarters here. But it is out of the brass business, having sold its Waterbury mills to Century Brass in 1975.  American Brass, now part of Anaconda Industries, is also largely out of the business, and the north end of the Chase Brass and Copper Company plant is being torn down as workers refurbish the south end for other uses.  Work continues at the surviving brass plant. ''Century is still one of the biggest brass mills in the country,'' said Edward Borowski, president of the United Automobile Workers local that represents 1,269 employees now working at the mill and 500 who have been laid off.  To help keep the mill operating, the union agreed to forgo a pay raise in the first year of a new 35-month contract. Century makes brass in sheets, rods, wires and tubes and has a casting shop. Mr. Borowski said there were complaints that the work was hot, dirty, smoky and dangerous, especially in the casting shop. But he added: ''I've never had anybody quit the casting shop. They've said, 'Eddie, can you get my son a job?' ''  ''There are all kinds of small shops here making anything and everything,'' he said, ''but if this mill closed, people making $7 or $8 an hour would have trouble getting $4.''  The city has a tourist attraction, ''Holy Land,'' sitting on a rocky hill overlooking the downtown area and the knot formed by Interstate 84, State Route 8 and the Naugatuck River.  The 13-acre hilltop, crowned with a 20-foot cross that is lighted at night, is filled with statues of saints, three-dimensional representations of biblical events and a hillside of model buildings meant to depict Jerusalem. But after 25 years of weathering and vandalism, it looks more like a combination miniature medieval battleground and urban-renewal target area.  The free attraction draws few from Waterbury, but tourists by the busload. John Taggett, who drives a cab during the week but volunteers at Holy Land on weekends, said he had seen buses from ''as far away as Florida.''  Waterbury dominates the Naugatuck Valley, but lately there is less around to dominate. To the south, the town of Naugatuck was once the center of American rubber manufacturing, but that industry has largely disappeared. To the north, Torrington is officially categorized by the state as ''economically distressed,'' along with six other towns in the valley.  But the area has attracted some new industry. The Chase mill has been renamed Waterbury Industrial Commons, and more than half of its 730,000 square feet has been sold, leased or committed to various manufacturers.  The North American Philips Controls Corporation has opened a plant in Cheshire, employing more than 700 workers, and other electronics companies, eyelet makers and chemical producers have moved in. In Waterbury, a Sheraton hotel is planned.  ''In the last five years,'' Mayor Bergin said, ''we've added 3,300 jobs in nonbrass industries. We've held our own.'' Growth and prosperity are farther afield. At the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Fulco drew a map of the state with sweeping strokes, outlining the ''Gold Coast'' of Fairfield County and Danbury, which is filling up with corporations' headquarters.  ''Hartford is the other boom area,'' he said, ''and what sits in between?'' ''We sit as a sleeping giant,'' he said, pointing out that realestate prices, the number of skilled workers and even rental housing were at attractive levels here.  Seeking to encourage the overflow of business to Waterbury, the Mayor took a slight jab at cities that had weaned themselves from manufacturing -especially Danbury, the former ''Hat City'' down the road. ''City services are more readily available here,'' he said, ''We have lots of water - we sell it to surrounding towns.''  Illustrations: Map of Connecticut photo of The Century Brass plant in Waterbury, Conn. 
