20070305
 The Evening Wrap: Libby Is Found Guilty Online edition  By Annett, Tim, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 6, 2007  Though Mr. [Libby] could face up to 25 years in prison when he is sentenced in early June, federal sentencing guidelines are likely to shorten any potential jail term considerably, and the defense said it would file a motion asking for a new trial. Should that fail, Mr. Libby's lawyers said they plan an appeal. "We have every confidence that ultimately Mr. Libby will be exonerated," defense lawyer Theodore V. Wells Jr. said. Critics of the prosecution complained that amid his frustration over being unable to unearth any criminal wrongdoing in the leaking of Ms. [Valerie Plame]'s name, Mr. [Patrick Fitzgerald] brought an overzealous perjury case when there was no underlying crime. Today, Mr. Fitzgerald said from the courthouse steps that "any lie under oath is serious" and if "people don't come forward and tell truth, we have no hope of making the judicial system work." The legal process following the verdict will take time to play out, and Mr. Libby will remain free as his case winds through the courts.  Much like the growth in gross domestic product, worker productivity during the fourth quarter of last year looked great the first time around only to be slapped with a steep revision on the government's second read. The Labor Department said productivity increased 1.6% during the last three months of last year, much weaker than the original 3% estimate. "Surging productivity had been the ticket to huge increases in profits over the past three years," wrote economist Joel L. Naroff. "That appears to be history." At the same time, unit labor costs jumped 6.6%, up from the original reading of 1.7%. Policy makers believe that slowing economic growth will eventually hose down inflation, but the whiff of inflation in this report will make the Fed's job harder, economists said. "Even as signs of weakness in the economy accumulate, it is clear that the underlying rate of inflation is rising," wrote Global Insight's Nariman Behravesh. "Thus, the Fed's room to maneuver is becoming much more limited. Specifically, the probability of any cut in rates this year has diminished considerably."  DaimlerChrysler Chief Executive Dieter Zetsche told reporters at the Geneva Auto Show that his openness to the possible sale of Chrysler Group isn't being driven by pressure from shareholders or from the company's supervisory board. The decision to weigh "all options" for Chrysler was "a proactive development, not a reactive development," he said, adding that it stemmed from an effort by top management at "refining and revisiting" the strategy of all the divisions. He said management "confronted" the supervisory board with the proposal to look at all options for Chrysler during a meeting on Feb. 13. Mr. Zetsche declined to characterize the level of interest Chrysler has attracted from prospective buyers.   
