19810818
TREAT WILLIAMS is opening tomorrow as the star of one of the summer's most ambitious new films, ''Prince of the City.'' He plays a police officer on the narcotics squad who turns informer on his colleagues - and finally admits to his own misdeeds - in this true, complex story of police corruption in New York City. The film has already generated a great deal of interest, for it was directed by Sidney Lumet (''Serpico,'' ''Dog Day Afternoon,'' ''Network'') and is based on the publicized exploits of former Detective Robert Leuci, whose cooperation with Government investigators led to the indictments of 52 detectives who used to roam New York at will as members of the elite Special Investigating Unit in the Narcotics Division.  For the 29-year-old Mr. Williams, the film is the biggest break of his career, and just the sort of vehicle that elevates a handsome young actor to celebrity-of-the-moment status: Johnny Carson wants him. So does Merv Griffin. Scores of magazines and newspapers want interviews. Gossip columnists are printing his name. Halston is inviting him to his star-studded parties. A squadron of press agents is needed to screen and schedule appearances. New Pirate King  Next Tuesday, Mr. Williams will be the center of even more attention. That night he will replace his friend Kevin Kline in the musical hit ''The Pirates of Penzance'' as the swashbuckling Pirate King, one of the flashiest roles on Broadway.  If Mr. Williams, best known to date as the hippie Berger in the film ''Hair,'' is carried away by the attention of the moment, it isn't evident. The day of Halston's black-tie party for Liza Minnelli and Robert DeNiro last week, he was behaving like a jittery highschool boy getting ready for a prom. After a grueling day of rehearsals for ''Pirates'' in a steamy room downtown at the Public Theater, he rushed home to his new upper West Side penthouse and carefully laid out his ensemble for the evening. He neatly placed his pretied bow tie and cummerbund, still in boxes, next to his tuxedo shirt, still in cellophane, on his antique dining table, and draped his new Ralph Lauren tuxedo over a chair. Everything was there.  Except the shoes. He had forgotten the shoes. Mr. Williams ran out to Broadway and came back minutes later with a black lace-up pair from a nearby Florsheim's. A Taste of Celebrity  With that matter resolved, Mr. Williams settled down over white wine spritzers on his expansive terrace to talk about the latest developments in his career. He spoke at a rapid clip, pausing occasionally to deliver self-mocking one-liners with the cockiness of Danny Ciello, the character, based on Robert Leuci, that he plays in ''Prince of the City.'' ''I got a lot of invitations after 'Hair,' but after the film flopped, the invitations stopped,'' Mr. Williams remarked. ''I've already had a taste of celebrity, and it left a bad taste.''  So did the film business, for a while. After an earlier movie, the comedy ''Why Would I Lie?,'' which critics didn't find at all funny, Mr. Williams decided to change careers. ''I started flying planes for a company in Los Angeles,'' said the actor, whose unusual first name is Welsh and has been in his family for generations. ''I'd done eight films, none of which had been successful. I felt so out of control. I wasn't working with people I wanted to work with. I was very frustrated.''  Six months later, Sidney Lumet called and offered Mr. Williams the starring role in ''Prince of the City,'' which he and Jay Presson Allen had adapted from Robert Daley's book. 'The Best Work I've Done'  ''It's the best work I've done so far,'' volunteered Mr. Williams, who is on screen for most of the film's two hours and 47 minutes. ''It's my most complex and multifaceted role. At my age, I'm very pleased to have played it, and that Sidney trusted me. Most actors have to wait until they're in their 40's to play such a complex role.''  Before the shooting began, Mr. Williams spent a month learning about police work. He hung out day and night at the 23d Precinct, Third Avenue at 102d Street, and went on drug busts; he also lived for a while with Mr. Leuci. ''To be a cop in the film,'' said Mr. Williams, who was born in the quiet town of Rowayton, Conn., and grew up in upper-middle-class comfort, ''I had to have the second nature of a cop: How do they load their guns? How do they treat junkies on the street? How do they talk to the judges downtown? How do they treat lawyers? By the time we started rehearsals, I was thinking like a cop.''  Mr. Williams lit a cigarette and leaned forward in his lounge chair. ''The police are so worried about the appearance of corruption now that two cops wouldn't let me buy them a cup of coffee. But in those days, before the Knapp Commission, the guys in the Special Investigating Unit were literally 'Princes of the City.' Some didn't pick up their paychecks for weeks at a time. They were making so much money.'' Decision to Return to Stage  After ''Prince of the City,'' Mr. Williams made another movie. He starred with Robert Duvall in ''Pursuit,'' which is due to open in November. Last spring Mr. Williams decided he wanted to get back to the stage - his first job in the theater in New York was as John Travolta's understudy in ''Grease'' - so he signed for the starring role in a summer production of ''A Servant of Two Masters,'' Carlo Goldoni's farce, at Kenyon College in Ohio. He had already opened in the play, which closed only yesterday, when he was offered the part of the Pirate King in ''The Pirates of Penzance.'' The timing couldn't have been worse.  ''This has been the most awful rehearsal period of my life,'' Mr. Williams moaned, lighting another cigarette. ''Thursday through Sunday, I've been in 'A Servant of Two Masters.' I'd fly back here on Sunday in the middle of the night and go into rehearsal for 'Pirates' on Monday. This has been going on for four weeks. At first, I was flying myself back and forth in my twin-engine Piper, but that was too exhausting. It was suggested that I leave the play in Ohio, but I wouldn't do that to the cast.'' Hard Act to Follow  Mr. Williams received help from Dan Berlinghoff, the ''Pirates'' conductor, who flew to Ohio to work with him. ''It has taken a lot of voice lessons to get my vocal tenor back,'' he said. ''And I've been running two miles a day to get in shape. I go into the show Aug. 25, but I hope people will see me after Sept. 15.''  It's inevitable, Mr. Williams knows, that he will be compared to Kevin Kline, who is a hard act to follow. ''I'll be a smash in 'Prince of the City' and will have that to fall back on,'' Mr. Williams joked. Then, he threw up his arms in exasperation. ''What am I going to do? Get a heart attack if someone says I'm not as good as Kevin? No one can touch him, but I'd hope there are other people who can play the Pirate King - or else they should close the show down.  ''Kevin is a dear friend, and I've told him my fears. He said, 'No one should go into the show but you.' I said to him, 'I'll steal from everything of yours that I can.' ''  One difference between the two actors will be readily apparent: Mr. Williams has a beard. ''I grew it so I'd look older,'' he said.''I have a young-looking face. I look more like the Pirate Prince.''  Illustrations: Photo of Treat Williams in role from movie 'Prince of the City' Photo of Treat Williams in role from 'Pirates of Penzance' 
