20040813
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Review / TV: Fitness Frenzy Comes Home   By Varadarajan, Tunku, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 13, 2004  The "stars" of Fit TV include Sharon Mann, a four-time Canadian aerobics champion who, not surprisingly given her credentials, is so insanely enthusiastic that she shakes her head back and forth with joy while exercising. Her Tai Chi-"boxercize"-Pilates bootcamp can be viewed five times daily on weekdays, and twice daily on weekends. (Most of the tele-trainers rotate throughout the daily schedule, just like at a health club. The rundown for "In Shape With Sharon Mann" (7:30 a.m., 11:30 a.m., 4 p.m., 8:30 p.m., 11:30 p.m.) and others, is available at www.FitTV.com).  A self-adoring Israeli stud-muffin named Gilad Janclowicz seems to appear just as often as Ms. Mann, as does a comely brunette called Diane Bruni, who floats us through half-hour segments of "Breathing Space Yoga" (8 a.m., 2 p.m., 5:30 p.m.), clad invariably in a powder- blue unitard. This Yoga Lady's expression never registers a notch above Valium stupor, even when she's exulting in her oneness with the Param-Atma (I'm sorry, you'll need to look that up yourself). But she takes first prize for bizarre one-liners. I swear I heard her say this, some days ago: "Listen to the sound of the grass as you relax your mind."  The "Fit TV" trainers are saved from such sinister comparisons by the practicality of their product -- and by their sheer optimism. They really seem to hold us dear, and to believe that we can change (poor verb, that, for the profound revolution in our corporeal selves they promise to wreak). "You'll transform your body and transform your life," Gilad believes, earnest to his last muscle. His "Bodies in Motion" program (6 a.m., 10 a.m., 8 p.m., 11 p.m.) has a slightly misleading title: Motion there is, of course, but at an amiable pace, allowing exercisers to believe that they're keeping up with the leader. No surprise, then, that his show is a favorite among middle- age urban matrons who have a shot at aerobics in-between cups of herbal tea in the morning ("yentas in leotards," a friend calls them).   
