20020206
 Wages of Terror: For Oil Companies, Defense Abroad Is The Order of the Day --- Occidental Fends Off Rebels In Colombia, Nurturing Delicate Ties to Military --- Hearing Shots in the Night   By By Alexei Barrionuevo and Thaddeus Herrick, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 7, 2002  Probably the most contentious issue for Los Angeles-based Occidental is the company's reliance on the Colombian military for security. The U.S. State Department cites the Colombian military for serious human-rights violations, including extra-judicial killings. Impunity remains a problem, with authorities seldom bringing high-ranking police and security officers to justice. The State Department says members of the security forces collaborate with paramilitary groups, sharing information and even providing ammunition. Occidental has even come under fire for contracting a high-tech surveillance plane that may have played a role in a 1998 attack by the Colombian military in which at least 17 civilians died. Occidental denies any involvement. Colombian authorities are investigating the incident.  When it was discovered in 1983 -- then with an estimated one billion barrels of reserves -- Cano Limon was seen as a field that would transform Occidental. But as oil royalties began gushing into Arauca, the ELN frequently bombed the pipeline and shook down local repair crews. Occidental acknowledged gifts of money, food and transportation to the guerrillas. "We take care of the local population," said Occidental's late founder Armand Hammer in 1985. "It has worked out so far."  Occidental's security chief brought in special dogs after a bomb in a dump truck exploded in October 2000 just outside the main entrance. The early-morning attack narrowly missed a bus filled with 40 secretaries and other local Arauca workers. The truck's bumper landed 50 feet in front of the bus and some workers said they felt the blast from their dormitories. After the incident, Occidental built a new access road about 300 feet farther out to keep potential explosions away from employees. Occidental even imports mechanics from nearby towns to Cano Limon rather than risk losing company cars to rebel thieves in Arauca. "These are the hidden costs," says Mr. [Guimer Dominguez], Occidental's Colombian president.   
