19820408
Helen Lawrenson, whose social observations in books and articles drew widely on her recollections of celebrities and her own adventures, died Monday night at her Chelsea apartment in New York City after an apparent heart attack. She was 74 years old.  Mrs. Lawrenson wrote extensively for Esquire and 45 years ago was the first woman to be a contributor to that magazine. Born Helen Brown, she had also written as Helen Brown Norden before her 1939 marriage to Jack Lawrenson, a co-founder of the National Maritime Union, who died in 1957.  Mrs. Lawrenson began developing an acerbic style as an editor and film critic for Vanity Fair magazine in the 1920's. She created a sensation in 1936 with ''Latins Are Lousy Lovers,'' her first Esquire article.  First published anonymously, it was described in a 1973 Esquire collection as probably ''the most notorious piece'' in the magazine's history, however sedate its revelations by later standards. The article, without using the word, ridiculed machismo as ''quantity, not quality.'' A Friend of Baruch  In her 1975 memoirs, ''Stranger at the Party,'' Mrs. Lawrenson said she had written the article to amuse Bernard Baruch, a close friend. Like Conde Nast, the publisher of Vanity Fair and other magazines, Mr. Baruch was a friend and admirer of both Mrs. Lawrenson and Clare Boothe Luce, who were longtime colleagues and rivals. Mrs. Luce became the godmother and Mr. Baruch the godfather of Mrs. Lawrenson's daughter, Johanna.  At her death, Mrs. Lawrenson was working on her first novel - ''a wrap-up of the 1960's,'' according to her agent for the last 22 years, Roz Cole. The book, to be called ''Dance of Scorpions,'' was scheduled for publication in July by Simon & Schuster. Her second collection of memoirs, ''Whistling Girl,'' was published by Doubleday.  Mrs. Lawrenson was found dead after she did not appear Tuesday for a luncheon date with Mrs. Cole and Simon & Schuster representatives, In a New York Times article in 1979, Mrs. Lawrenson, well-known as a figure in cafe society during the 1930's, described dinner parties she had known. Illustrious Dinner Partners  ''There was usually a prince, a duchess or a brace of British baronets, plus a local Vanderbilt or Whitney, a Hollywood luminary like Bebe Daniels, a Broadway one like Ina Claire,'' she said. ''Guests at these affairs were often so celebrated that some of my old dinner partners are now on postage stamps - Frank Lloyd Wright, John Steinbeck.''  Mrs. Lawrenson was born in upstate New York, where her family had been Jefferson County residents for six generations. A graduate of Vassar College, she began her career as a newspaper reporter in Syracuse.  When the Irish-born Mr. Lawrenson, her third husband, left the maritime union's vice presidency in 1950 after losing a struggle against Joseph Curran, the union president, Mrs. Lawrenson helped him with a moving and storage business he operated in Greenwich Village. Their son, Kevin, died in 1979.  Besides her daughter, Mrs. Lawrenson is survived by a grandson, Jobe Lawrenson, in England and a half-sister, Doris Brown, of Manhattan.  A memorial service will be held at 1 P.M. April 20 in the Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South. 
