19820219
WASHINGTON, Feb. 18— It is not so big as the automobile industry, which has 723,000 employees, nor even so large as the footwear industry, which has 143,800. But like those ailing industries, the spring clothespin industry, which employs 427 people, has come to Washington to lobby for Federal help against imports.  Sometime before midnight Monday, President Reagan must decide whether to extend the industry's import quotas. And though the imported clothespin may not constitute much of a threat to the nation's security or economy, the fate of four small towns in Maine hangs in the balance.  ''If it isn't extended, we could potentially lose enough of our sales so we would have to close the plant,'' said Richard H. Penley, vice president of the Penley Corporation, which employs 125 people in the western Maine town of West Paris. ''We have people who have worked for us for 25 years or more. It would be an economic disaster for the town.'' Then Things Improved  Since 1974, the tiny domestic clothespin industry, which today produces $11 million in clothespins a year, has been combating a wave of foreign competition, primarily from Taiwan and Poland. Imports accounted for nearly half the clothespins sold in the United States at one point in the mid-70's, prompting President Carter to order quotas. The figure has since dropped to less than a third and the industry's net operating loss of 7.6 percent has turned to an average net profit of 8.8 percent.  But the clothespin manufacturers do not believe the battle has been won and that is why they have joined the army of special interest groups that endless troop the corridors of official Washington in search of relief and favor. Though they now can virtually guarantee their workers year-round employment and though the industry has made substantial progress toward competitiveness, they argue that their drive toward modernization is only ''half completed.'' They have told trade officials that they plan additional investments of more than $2 million.  For the last four months, members of the Maine Congressional delegation and a Washington lobbyist have been bringing the entreaties of the people of the Maine towns of West Paris, Peru, Wilton and Mattawamkeg, along with the workers in two small clothespin plants in Vermont, to the corridors of the International Trade Commission and the office of the Special Trade Representative. A Textbook Lobbying Drive  Together, they have conducted a textbook Washington lobbying effort, though on a modest scale. They have pointed out to Federal trade officials that relief to the clothespin industry indirectly aids the logging industry, itself depressed because of the weak demand for construction lumber. They have noted that prices for spring clothespin have risen at a ''much slower rate'' than prices for other consumer durables. And they have contended that this form of import relief will have no adverse effect on the economic or national security interests of the United States.  The argument led the International Trade Commission, which has only advisory powers, to recommend that the quotas be extended for three more years. A review by a panel of representatives of the State, Treasury, Commerce, Labor and Justice Departments has been completed, but its finding has not been disclosed. The final decision is left to Mr. Reagan.  The lobbying has gone down to the wire. A number of Maine state legislators have urged Mr. Reagan to extend the quotas. Just last week Senator William S. Cohen, Republican of Maine, conferred privately with Michael K. Deaver, Mr. Reagan's deputy chief of staff, and with Bill Brock, the Special Trade Representative, on the issue.  Mr. Cohen's staff now believes that some form of import quota relief will be forthcoming. ''It may be a small industry but for us it's jobs,'' said Robert S. Tyrer, spokesman for Mr. Cohen. ''In a state like Maine, these small family businesses make a difference.''  Illustrations: Cartoon of a clothes line 
