19820402
Mark Twain, Anne Frank, John Steinbeck, Ernest Hemingway, J. D. Salinger, Bernard Malamud, Kurt Vonnegut, Isaac Asimov, Eve Merriam and other authors, living and dead, had their day in the sun yesterday at a midtown rally against censorship.  Protesters gathered between two Sabrett hot-dog umbrellas in the street and the stone lions flanking the steps of the New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue at 41st Street. The authors had one thing in common: All have had their works banned or burned in schools and libraries by self-appointed censors around the country.  Summoned by the fanfare of a trumpeter, Robert Delfausse, a candidate for a master's degree in classical music at City College, a floating crowd of several thousand attended a ''read-out'' by writers and actors reciting passages from banned books. A Metaphor for Freedom  David Garrison, who plays the police sergeant in ''Pirates of Penzance,'' read a favorite passage from ''Huckleberry Finn,'' which had been suppressed in some high schools by black parents who called it ''racist'' and white parents who said that ''it did not reward good and punish bad.'' Calling the Twain passage a metaphor for freedom, Mr. Garrison read:  ''We said there warn't no home like a raft, after all. Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery, but a raft don't. You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft.'' An Updated Simple Simon  Miss Merriam, whose ''The Inner City Mother Goose'' has been banned, updated her nursery rhymes by taking the occasion to have Simple Simon come out against against government corruption: ''There was a crooked man - and he did very well.''  In addition to books, speakers pointed out that magazines were also subject to censorship. Joanne Edgar of Ms. Magazine said that many high school libraries banned the publication on flimsy grounds, saying that some of the language was offensive when ''their real reason is that they are against what the feminist movement stands for.''  The read-out was organized by the American Society of Journalists and Authors, a 600-member association of freelance nonfiction writers, and supported by a score of other concerned organizations - including church and civil-liberties groups and those connected with the book and magazine trades.  Illustrations: Photo of an author 
