19891109
 Japanese Seek Low Profile in U.S. Deals --- Concern Over Backlash Leads to Unusual Proposals   By By Marcus W. Brauchli, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 10, 1989  Anxious to avoid the embarrassment of a public imbroglio, Nissho Iwai came up with one of the most complicated -- and innovative -- Japanese acquisitions of a U.S. company to date. Instead of outright buying the sporting goods group, at the time a unit of Minneapolis-based Minstar Inc., Nissho Iwai joined a buy-out group of two other Japanese companies, the target company's management, some private investors and a Los Angeles-based investment firm, Freeman Spogli & Co. The end result: Japanese investors own only 30% of the sporting goods company, but have a new source of products, a big say in management and right of first refusal if the financial investors decide to sell out.  The unusual structure behind that $160 million deal may be a sign of things to come. With popular resentment of Japanese investment in the U.S. running high after a spate of recent Japanese acquisitions, companies here are looking hard at ways to reduce the friction that their investments cause. On the advice of their bankers, some publicity-shy Japanese companies are considering investment and business alliances with U.S. partners, devising new ways of structuring acquisitions, and trying to better explain their aims.  So far, there is small evidence of Japanese self-restraint. The pace of Japanese acquisitions in the U.S. and elsewhere has remained strong. The disclosed value of all Japanese-initiated mergers and acquisitions in the first nine months of this year was 2.51 trillion yen ($17.5 billion), up from 2.12 trillion yen in all of 1988, according to Yamaichi Securities Co. One U.S. estimate, though, suggests that the value of announced U.S. acquisitions by Japanese companies has slipped. Securities Data Co. says the U.S. investments totaled $10.96 billion in the first nine months, down about 4% from $11.43 billion a year earlier.   
