19820221
Friends, students and admirers helped Ross Lee Finney celebrate his 75th birthday Thursday at the Symphony Space. The music was by Mr. Finney and some of his more successful students - including Roger Reynolds, George Crumb, William Albright and Robert Ashley.  None of the four Finney pieces was more than 10 years old, and all reflected a good-natured communicativeness and careful workmanship. The oldest, ''2 Acts for 3 Players'' (1971), tried the hardest and seemed the least effective. Yoshinori Nakao played the clarinet with furious virtuosity and received equally furious support from Robert Conway's piano and Daniel Armstrong's battery of percussion instruments, but so much more engaging and relaxed were his Concerto for Alto Saxophone (1974) and last year's Chamber Concerto (Heyoka) for six wind instruments and percussion.  The saxophone piece seemed to extract every possible beautiful sound from the instrument, and the playing of Laura Hunter and her partner at the piano, Brian Connelly, was a delight. Both this piece and the Chamber Concerto occupied an impressionistic harmonic world and reflected a softening from Mr. Finney's more dourly formal music of a decade earlier. The concerto alternated between evocative dreaminess and bright good humor.  In ''Variations on a Memory'' (1975) for eight winds, piano and percussion, Mr. Finney fractures and obfuscates a theme by Rossini in entertaining Ivesian ways, but the performance could have used a finer sense of intonation from the young players of the University of Michigan's Contemporary Directions Ensemble. Otherwise, Carl St. Clair conducted the group with clarity and firmness.  Mr. Albright's ''Shadows: Eight Serenades for Guitar'' explored guitar sonority and Spanish traditions pleasantly, and Michael Lorimer seemed to play them all beautifully. Robert Ashley's ''Tap Dancing in the Sand'' was a whimsical monologue delivered in varied tempos and dynamics that examined the borders between speech and music. Mr. Crumb's Cosmic Dances for Amplified Piano from ''Celestial Mechanics'' explored piano sound from the inside out in Mr. Crumb's special way. Mr. Conway and Jonathan Shames were the busy duopianists.  The evening's most arresting piece was Roger Reynold's ''Voicespace III: Eclipse'' for four-channel tape. The imaginative use of recorded voices and electronic sound moved from speaker to speaker in every corner of the hall and enveloped listeners in a singularly dramatic experience. This, like Mr. Ashley's piece and Mr. Finney's Chamber Concerto, was a world premiere. The other works, except the Crumb, had their first New York performances. Bernard Holland 
