20051006
 Entertainment: Big in Vegas; Sumo Wrestling, Short of Fans, Books Weekend on the Strip; The Lavatory on Flight 26   By Hannah Karp and Ginny Parker Woods, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 7, 2005  Las Vegas is an unlikely landing spot for professional sumo, a sport with deep religious roots that in modern times has become a focal point for traditional Japanese society. While there hasn't been any strong opposition to this trip from sumo traditionalists, it's not popular with everyone. Holding the contest in Las Vegas is "no good," says Toshihiro Gonoi, a 24-year-old restaurant manager in Tokyo. "My impression of Vegas is that the people there won't understand sumo -- and they're not going to show the proper respect."  On Flight 26, grand champion wrestler Asashoryu flew in business class; out of respect, all other wrestlers rode coach. Since those seats aren't sufficient for a sumo, the wrestlers were given two apiece, or three shared between two wrestlers, which required the flight crew to strap them in with extra-long seat belts. Fellow passenger Derisita Tan, a travel agent, was happy to welcome the wrestlers on board (she's a sumo fan) until one of them sat down directly behind her and, to her horror, began to fidget. "I couldn't sleep the whole way," she said. When asked about this, team-travel coordinator Hiro Kato made no apologies for wrestlers occasionally thrashing about on the nine-hour flight. "They need to maintain their circulation," he explained.  While they were instructed not to talk to other passengers on the flight (to maintain focus, officials say), they could be overheard talking about the visit and how they hoped it might win them a few more fans. But their chief topic of discussion was shopping. Wrestler Daisuke Shiga, known to his fans as Tochiazuma, said he was headed straight to Niketown. "I can't wait to go because in the Japan store, I can never find my size." "I want T-shirts," said 28-year-old Hiromi Yamada, known as Wakatoba. "And maybe I'll try a little gambling, too."   
