19821117
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. THE timing and contents of meals, as well as the consumption of certain individual nutrients, can have subtle and occasionally dramatic effects on mood and behavior, according to a series of new studies described at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology last week.  Several of the studies indicate that foods and nutrients might be used therapeutically to treat such common problems as depression, insomnia, hyperactivity, chronic pain and carbohydrate cravings.  The evidence presented, which shows that specific foods and nutrients can produce specific changes in the chemical balance of the brain, also suggests that diet might be tailored to suit the task at hand. For example, the research indicates, it might be best to consume a high-protein, low-carbohydrate meal before doing a complicated job that requires concentration and alertness.  The studies cast strong doubt on the currently popular beliefs that sugar makes children hyperactive and that sugar-free diets can curb aggression in prison inmates. On the other hand, the new studies lend scientific support to the popular notion that the way people feel is affected by what they eat. They also give credence to such folk wisdom as the use of candy to soothe a crying child and of hot milk and honey to induce sleep.  ''It's likely that early in life people make associations between the consumption of certain foods and changes in how they feel,'' said Dr. Richard J. Wurtman, a neuroendocrinologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and chairman of the conference. ''Then, later on, they unconsciously turn to those foods to re-create the desired feelings.''  For example, several studies demonstrated that eating carbohydrates (sugars and starches) can raise the level of a brain chemical, serotonin, that is associated with feeling relaxed, calm, sleepy, less depressed and less sensitive to pain.  This may be why so many people report that they binge on carbohydrates when they feel anxious or depressed, noted Dr. Judith J. Wurtman, a cell biologist and nutritionist at M.I.T. and the wife of Dr. Richard Wurtman.  ''It may also explain why high-protein, low-carbohydrate weightreduction diets usually fail,'' she went on. ''These diets induce a serotonin deficiency in the brain which in turn could trigger carbohydrate cravings to correct the imbalance.''  Dr. Wurtman has found that very low doses of the drug fenfluramin, which raises brain serotonin levels, can help curb carbohydrate binges. She has also formulated ''The Carbohydrate Craver's Diet,'' which incorporates sweet and starchy snacks into a low-calorie eating plan. It will be published as a book by Houghton Mifflin in January.  The research reported here is largely an outgrowth of neurochemical studies by Dr. Richard Wurtman, Dr. John D. Fernstrom, also of M.I.T., and others that found that the consumption of certain nutrients can change the levels of brain chemicals that transmit messages between nerve cells. These neurotransmitters, as they are called, regulate a wide variety of brain activities and can affect both mood and performance. The nutrients are actually the chemical precursors, or parents, of neurotransmitters, which cannot be given directly because they do not cross into the brain from the blood.  For example, tryptophan, an amino acid found in protein foods like meat, chicken and fish, is the precursor of serotonin, a neurotransmitter that induces sleep and acts as an antidepressant. When tryptophan is given or when foods are eaten that raise the blood levels of tryptophan, serotonin levels in the brain increase.  Although tryptophan is a constituent of protein, it is the consumption of carbohydrate foods that actually raises tryptophan levels in the blood and brain. This occurs because other amino acids in protein successfully compete with tryptophan for passage into the brain, and brain levels of tryptophan and, in turn, serotonin, fall when protein is eaten.  Carbohydrate foods like sweets, bread, pasta and rice, on the other hand, result in removal from the blood of the competing amino acids and a consequent increase in tryptophan and serotonin levels in the brain.  Among the other findings described here were these:  * Newborn babies fall asleep more readily when tryptophan and carbohydrate are added to their formulas, Dr. Michael W. Yogman of Children's Hospital Medical Center in Boston reported. It may eventually be possible to adjust a nursing mother's diet or tailormake formulas to help babies sleep through the night and be more alert during the day, he suggested in an interview.  * Tryptophan also induces sleepiness in adults, Dr. Ernest Hartmann, a sleep specialist at Tufts University School of Medicine, reported. He and Dr. Harris Lieberman, a psychologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, suggested that tryptophan might be used to treat mild insomnia without producing the moodaltering effects and central-nervous-system depression caused by barbiturates and other sleep-inducing drugs. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
