20010604
 Big Board Cites 13 Individuals For Discipline   By By Brooks Barnes, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 5, 2001  CALIFORNIA: Michael R. Bergstrom, a former nonregistered employee from Santa Monica, was permanently barred for misappropriating firm funds and failing to comply with a written Big Board request for testimony, among other violations. An NYSE panel found that between November 1998 and January 1999, Mr. Bergstrom made credits to his personal brokerage account totaling approximately $26,213 without making corresponding deposits to the branch's bank account. The panel also found that Mr. Bergstrom deposited checks into the branch's bank account and didn't make corresponding credits to his personal brokerage account, totaling approximately $14,026. The panel found that Mr. Bergstrom made entries that caused the books and records maintained by his firm to be inaccurate and that he failed to comply with a written request for testimony.  NEW JERSEY: Omar Abbago Roldan, a former nonregistered employee from Hoboken, was permanently barred without admitting or denying findings he misappropriated funds belonging to a customer of his firm. An NYSE panel found that a sales assistant at the firm sent Mr. Roldan a customer's debit card. Mr. Roldan accessed the customer's bank account information via his computer at the firm and activated the debit card. Mr. Roldan then used the debit card to make cash withdrawals at ATMs and purchases at various stores. The panel found that between May 17, 2000, and June 8, 2000, Mr. Roldan used the card to make 34 ATM withdrawals totaling about $5,435 and nine store purchases totaling about $1,283.  NORTH CAROLINA: Molly Roberson, a former nonregistered employee from Forest City, was barred for four months without admitting or denying findings she engaged in sales-practice misconduct in a customer's account, among other violations. An NYSE panel found that in August 1999, Ms. Roberson deposited $2,900 of her own money into a customer's account to meet a margin call pursuant to Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board. The panel found that Ms. Roberson then forged the customer's name on a letter authorizing a check be issued from the account to return the $2,900. The panel also found that Ms. Roberson made a "misstatement" when questioned about that matter by the firm.   
