20070502
 EuroLinks Daily View: Challenges Await BP's Hayward Online edition  By Connolly, Michael, The Wall Street Journal,  May 3, 2007  PLAYING WITH HISTORY: During Boris Yeltsin's presidency, Russia's archives were opened to the public and its recent past was examined, writes Mart Laar in a commentary on our opinion pages. The former prime minister of Estonia says President Yeltsin was ready, at some times more than others, to recognize the crimes of communism -- apologizing, for example, to Finland for the 1940 Winter War. But President [Vladimir Putin], he writes, has dramatically altered the Kremlin's approach to the past -- and therefore to the future. He builds a new messianic and imperial identity around the victory over Nazism, which was also used by his predecessors to legitimize the Soviet Union. This war, which the Russians call the "Great Patriotic War," didn't start with Hitler's invasion of Poland in 1939. Russia helped start World War II through the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact signed a week before the Panzers stormed east, while Stalin's troops took chunks of Poland and all the Baltic countries. The "Great Patriotic War" begins in 1941, when Hitler turned on his ally. In a context where Stalin is more and more a founding hero for the "new Russia," writes Mr. Laar, it's no wonder that the crimes of occupation of neighboring countries and of communism are denied and that Russia aggressively demands that formerly occupied countries in the Soviet bloc accept its new understanding of the past. Any mention about the crimes of the Soviet era is called an insult to the "heroes of the Great Patriotic War."  SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS: Ultimately, the question posed by the challenges to ABN Amro is whether it is management or the owners who decide on takeover bids, our editorial writers argue. When an Amsterdam court decides Thursday afternoon on a shareholder group's lawsuit, investors around the Continent will be watching to see whether shareholder rights are strengthened in the important test case. It's easy to understand the frustration of ABN Amro stock owners who hurled insults at the bank's managers at last week's shareholder meeting, the writers say. While management argues that it is within its right to sell assets below one-third of the company's value without shareholder approval, the law also obliges CEO Rijkman Groenink to act in shareholders' best interest. But whatever the court decides, the activism of European shareholders has already achieved a victory just by making their voices heard. In the future, company managers will likely think twice before pushing deals without prior approval from the company's owners.  BANKING TRANSITIONS: With the Australia's big lenders pressured by intense competition and facing an expected increase in bad debts after years of record profits, investors are anxious to see who will be chosen to fill the shoes of the chief executives of two of the country's biggest banks, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group and Westpac Banking. ANZ's John McFarlane and Westpac's David Morgan both relinquish their posts at year's end after nearly a decade at the helm. Reporting a 16% rise in first-half net profit to US$1.74 billion last week, Mr. McFarlane dismissed a suggestion that ANZ is struggling to find a successor. Meanwhile, Westpac, which unveils its results Thursday, is considered more likely than ANZ to select an external candidate.   
