20051020
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; The Runway Gourmet   By Dougherty, Conor, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 21, 2005  So instead of down-home barbecue and grilled shrimp, we found a litter of national chains including Burger King, Pizza Hut and Popeye's Fried Chicken. Of course, that's fine with many travelers. Heading through the airport recently, Atlanta resident Sidney Cox, 11, got the chance to eat at Wendy's for just the second time in his life. "It's a special treat," said the young Mr. Cox, patting his belly after a sausage sandwich and hash browns. Still, after a bit of searching, we found [Paschal]'s Southern Delights, a soul-food restaurant with fried catfish and country steak smothered in gravy. A healthier option? The Greek salad from Atlanta Bread Co.  LAX is the world's No. 1 departure airport, with more travelers beginning their trips here than at any other airport. It may have one of the most iconic airport restaurants around, Encounter, with its control-tower look, Jetsons-like exterior arches and a martini list with drinks like the Bossa Supernova. But this airport could use a face lift: Only three of the facility's nine terminals have been remodeled since 1990, and most of the buildings haven't changed much since the airport was expanded before the 1984 Olympics. Food courts are scarce (there's one before security at the international terminal) and there's no tram or subway to ferry fliers between terminals.  When we visited in September, the view tended more toward plastic and dust (it's all gone now, the airport says) and we headed out of the terminal at mealtime. We particularly liked the food at two Hyatt hotels -- the new Grand Hyatt, just outside Terminal D, and the Hyatt Regency, near Terminal C. We had a tasty rack of ribs and fries at Jacob's Spring Grille, one of two restaurants in the Hyatt Regency. If you're feeling extra fancy, next door there's Mister G's, a white- tablecloth restaurant where the meat-heavy menu includes Dakota Plains bison with sage polenta ($64) and a $54 veal chop.   
