19810421
HONG KONG, April 20— China's view of Southeast Asia is dominated by implacable hostility to Vietnam's conquest of Cambodia and a conviction that the event was part of a Soviet quest to encircle China and threaten the rest of the world.  A series of interviews and discussions with senior Chinese officials, professional analysts and responsible journalists in Peking and Shanghai disclosed an attitude that a ranking Southeast Asian diplomat in Peking described as ''a 1950 psychology'' similar to John Foster Dulles's belief that the whole world must unite to defeat a common foe, combined with a faith that ''right will win out'' even if the struggle takes a long time.  A senior Chinese Foreign Ministry official reinforced the comparison by reviving the notion of ''containment,'' a word that had much currency in Mr. Dulles's era. ''We think it is best now to contain the Soviet presence in Afghanistan and Cambodia and not allow it to advance further,'' he declared.  The official made it clear that he considered containment only a short-term goal. In the long run China believes that unity of the rest of the world will force the Vietnamese out of Cambodia and bring down the pro-Soviet regime in Hanoi. Remarkably uniform opinions were expressed in the discussions, suggesting that the participants reflected official policy worked out in detailed terms and communicated to those with a need to know. Support for Pol Pot Urged  The policy excludes all consideration of national interests of Southeast Asian countries and urges that they, with the support of China, Japan, the United States and Western Europe, sustain indefinitely the forces led by former Prime Minister Pol Pot. It calls on all Cambodians to fight the Vietnamese occupiers.  The Chinese analysts reject the possibility of a negotiated political compromise. ''What you don't get on the battlefield, you can't get through a political solution,'' the Foreign Ministry official said. The analysts saw no possibility other than a protracted war by the Cambodian people against an enemy that is numerically greatly superior and vastly better armed.  Wu Zengda, deputy director of the Shanghai Institute for International Studies, estimated that the 200,000 Vietnamese soldiers in Cambodia were confronted by 40,000 guerrillas under Mr. Pol Pot and about 3,000 under the command of non-Communist Cambodians. Nonetheless, the foreign affairs official said, the resistance fighters are carrying on war on two-thirds of Cambodia's territory.  The Chinese conceded that the Pol Pot regime, which enjoyed Peking's full support during its rule from 1975 until 1979, had made what an official described as ''a number of mistakes in domestic policy.'' Accusations 'Not Completely True'  ''But saying that Pol Pot killed many people is not completely true,'' said Jiang Yuanchun, deputy director of the international department of People's Daily, the Communist Party's main newspaper.  The analysts compared Mr. Pol Pot's policies of revolutionary uprooting of Cambodian society to what is called in Peking the ''ultraleftist'' policies of the disgraced ''Gang of Four.'' But they asserted unanimously that the Cambodian leaders had corrected their errors and would not repeat them and had now gained the support and confidence of Cambodians.  ''We must allow inexperienced people to make mistakes and correct them,'' a Shanghai historian said in discussing the murder of countless Cambodians.  The Chinese asserted that the former chief of state, Prince Norodom Sihanouk, and former Prime Minister Son Sann, leader of the principal non-Communist resistance movement, were moving toward a coalition with the Pol Pot forces. Both the Prince and Mr. Son Sann have denied this. The analysts declined to comment on an observation that China had jailed the Gang of Four but was calling on Cambodians to accept their Cambodian counterparts once again as their leaders.  In the Chinese view, the war will be long. ''Things in Vietnam are bound to change if it continues for three to five years,'' the foreign affairs official said. The analysts interviewed smiled in apparent acknowledgment of China's arms assistance to the Pol Pot forces but declined to comment. Peking's military contribution to the Cambodian struggle was described as tying down 60 percent of the Vietnamese army on the border with China as a result of the Chinese incursion into Vietnam in 1979. A 'Lesson' for Both Sides  Mr. Jiang said that that attack, which was called a Chinese ''lesson'' to Vietnam, was also a lesson for China. ''Through this war we learned that there are some problems in the equipment, weapons and strategy of our army,'' the editor said. ''This can help us to improve militarily.''  The Chinese interviewed expressed hope that the non-Communist Southeast Asian nations, the United States, Japan and the countries of Western Europe would continue to vote to keep the Pol Pot representatives in the United Nations as the best way of opposing what they unanimously termed ''Soviet global and Vietnamese regional hegemonism.''  The analysts defended China's continued support of the Communist parties of Thailand, Malaysia and Burma, which are engaged in armed insurrections against the governments with which Peking has friendly relations. In the Chinese view, a continued Chinese link to the guerrilla movements prevents their being dominated by Moscow.  However, the officials and experts expressed hope that their political allies in Southeast Asia would attempt to compose their differences with the governments through consultations rather than war. Southeast Asian diplomats in Peking said that their governments remained unhappy over Peking's unwillingness to dissociate itself from the guerrilla movements despite its effort to improve governmental relations. 
