19810928
Iowa's coach, Hayden Fry, is used to picking teams off a scrap heap and putting the pieces back together one way or another. But even he is surprised at the sudden turnaround in fortunes at Iowa, which has scored two big upsets in three games. With a strong defense and a ball-control of fense, Iowa shocked U.C.L.A., 20-7, Saturday two weeks after havi ng opened the season by toppling Nebraska, 10-7. The Hawkeyes were ca ught napping nine days ago, when Iowa State beat them, 23-12.  ''Every place I've been, the program has been zip,'' Fry said by phone from Iowa City. ''This is my 20th year as a head coach and every place I've been, I took over a team that either had not won a game the previous season or had won only one game. Then I came to Iowa, where they had won two games the previous year. I felt I was off to a great start. But this is a pleasant surprise, with the two biggest early-seaso n victories we have ever had.''  Fry, 52 years old and a Baylor graduate, got his first head coaching job at Southern Methodist in 1962. The Mustangs had been helpless, but he led them to three bowls in 11 seasons, then moved on to North Texas State. After six years there, he went to Iowa in 1979 to begin his third reconstruction contract. His 100th Victory  The victory over U.C.L.A. was Fry's 100th as a head coach. He described the game plan as follows: control the ball on offense for a long time, punt U.C.L.A. into poor field position and concentrate on defense. About the only thing he felt he could count on before the game was the defense. But the plan worked almost to perfection.  ''The defense was as good as any in college football,'' he said. Andre Tippett, a possible all-America end, and Mark Bortz, a quick, strong tackle, showed why they are the standouts of the Hawkeye defense. Tippett hit Tom Ramsey, the U.C.L.A. quarterback, in the Bruin end zone, knocking the ball loose, and Bortz fell on it for a touchdown. Tippett sacked Ramsey twice and raised his total of sacks this season to five.  Pat Dean, the Iowa nose guard, had a fine game with 10 solo tackles. U.C.L.A. had only 43 plays from scrimmage, so Dean made almost 25 percent of the tackles.  Reggie Roby, who leads the nation in punting with a 54-yard average, kept U.C.L.A. deep in its territory. However, he hurt his average with his shortest punt of the season, a 45-yarder. But he made up for that with a 64-yarder.  Ball control was Fry's biggest question mark in the game plan, but the Hawkeyes held the ball for 23 minutes in the second half. They beat Nebraska and U.C.L.A. when those teams were ranked among the top 10.  On the loss to Iowa State, Fry said: ''We were still feeling our oats from that Nebraska victory when we played Iowa State. They beat us fair and square, however. But I sure would like to get them again.''  Iowa faces eight Big Ten foes, starting with Northwestern this week. It seems capable of having its first winning season in 20 years. Northwestern's only chance may come if Iowa is again ''feeling its oats'' over the U.C.L.A. victory. The Wildcats suffered their 23d consecutive loss Saturday, a 42-0 rout by Utah. They are five losses short of the major-college record of 28 in a row, shared by Virginia (1958-60) and Kansas State (1945-48). Backup Is Star  Ken Vierra Jr., the backup for Utah's regular quarterback, Tyce Ferguson, was the star of the victory with six completions in nine passes for 168 yards. His father was the backup for Lee Grosscup in the late 1950's at Utah.  Brigham Young's great-great grandson, Steve Young, is the backup quarterback at the university named after his ancestor. When Jim McMahon, the Cougar star, went down with strained ligaments in his left knee in the third quarter Saturday, Young finished a 41-20 rout of Colorado, passing for two touchdowns. It was the undefeated Cougars' fourth victory of the season.  McMahon, who underwent surgery on his left knee two and a half years ago, nevertheless continued his record-a-week pace. He now has 37 major-college records, having set two obscure ones Saturday - total touchdowns passing in two consecutive seasons, 58, and total touchdowns by passing or rushing in three seasons, 75. He passed for three touchdowns before the injury.  The Ivy League had one of its worst afternoons. Each of the eight teams played a nonleague opponent, and only Yale managed to win. Five opponents were Division I-AA teams and three Division I-A, or major. Ivy League teams are I-A.  Yale beat a highly ranked I-AA team, Connectciut, 27-18. Delaware,- ranked No.1 in Division I-AA, trounced Princeton, 61-8. Lehigh beat Penn by 58-0. The Ivy teams scored only 102 points in eight games to their opponents' 265.  In five other games involving Ivy teams, Lafayette (I-AA) beat Columbia, 28-13; Massachusetts (I-AA) beat Dartmouth, 10-8; Army (I-A) edged Brown, 23-17; Colgate (I-A) beat Cornell, 34-10, and Holy Cross (I-A) beat Harvard, 33-19. Undefeated Delaware, with its precision win g-T, rolled up 663 yards, including 25 first downs by rushing. P rinceton scheduled Delaware as a replacement for Rutgers, indica ting that the Scarlet Knights were getting too close to big-time fo otball. So the Tigers sought a more compatible opponent. They may b e looking again soon.  Illustrations: Photo of Iowa vs. Delaware 
