19820204
SAN SEBASTIAN, Spain— In this most dogmatically masculine of countries, a married man would no sooner don an apron and prepare a meal than he would enroll in a knitting class. Even in this liberated age, such an act, under less than dire circumstances, would be considered unseemly. The children might see it.  But here in the heart of Spanish Basque country, where the culinary tradition is a bright yarn in the f abric of r egional identity, men find themselves in a dilemma: many love to co ok, but they are not prepared to shed their virile armor and do it at home. Their solutionhas been the formation of all-male gastronomi c societies, a Basque twist on the English gentlemen's club in whic h the members, rather than sitting around sipping port and monitori ng the stock market, sniff stock pots and saute squid.  ''You could say we have a cult of cooking and eating well here,'' said Fernando Lacoste, a member of Gaztelupe, one of the more than 60 societies in this port city on the Cantabrian Sea. ''We are not professionals. We are simply a group of men who get together to eat and drink and 'contar mentiras' (tell lies).''  The name ''Gaztelupe'' in the Basque language, Euskara, means ''below t he c astle,'' which is the location of the clubhouse in the old port sect ion of the city. Founded in 1916, it is typical of the societies in San Sebastian. The 225 members range in age from the late 20's to the early 90's. All pay dues of roughly $5 monthly to cover mainten ance of the building, which resembles a fancy urban college frate rnity house. Each of the societies here has its own flagor ornate coa t of arms which is displayed over the entrance.  Every member has a key and can use the facilities whenever he wants. In the evening, men usually gather in groups of five to ten, with one designated as chef for the occasion, and enjoy a feast that may begin with country terrine and spicy chorizo and conclude well after midnight with cognac and cigars. The shopping is done by the diners before they arrive and all share in the expenses.  ''We buy the very best ingredients. Freshness is the most important quality in our style of cooking,'' avers Mr. Lacoste, an advertising man by trade whose fervor for his region's gastronomy is a highly effective one-man publicity campaign. ''We are fortunate to be in a fishing port. If we want chiperones (squid) for dinner, we can walk down to the port and go to each little boat that comes in and ask if he has any. We might buy three from one boat, six from another. A few hours later, we eat them.''  Thursdays through Saturdays are the busiest nights at Gaztulupe. To the first-time visitor, it appears like culinary chaos. A dozen men are scurrying about, tending to as many different pots on the enormous communal ranges. Others are cleaning fish, slicing meat, chopping vegetables and tasting stocks. In the large, baronial dining room, members are roistering at long tables, sipping wine, playing cards, telling lies. Basques are known for loving their music nearly as much as their food, and sometimes members gather around a piano and form an ''ochote,'' an eight-man chorus, to sing traditional songs.  ''You see those men up there?'' asks F. Gonzalo Munarriz, a longtime club member and unofficial historian of Gaztulupe, pointing to a half-dozen solemn looking stone busts perched along the wall of the dining hall. ''They are some of the biggest eaters and drinkers in the history of this city. Real legends.'' After recounting in detail the awesome feats of these celebrated consumers, Mr. Munarriz offered the underlying philosophy of these societies:  ''As you can see by looking around the room, we have people here from all walks of life. There are businessmen and bankers, laborers and retired men. When you walk through this door there are no class distinctions of any sort. The only thing we have in common here is appetite and thirst. I think the atmosphere here is very special.''  Unlike many other regions of Spain, the Basque country is blessed with a moderate climate and rich rain-soaked soil which bursts with fresh vegetables year-round. Seafood is the foundation of the cuisine, particularly merluza (hake), besugo (sea bream), bacalao (cod) and all varieties of crustaceans, from softball-sized king crabs to savory tiny shrimp that are grilled and munched like french fries. One of the most prized delicacies is called ''Kokotxas a la Donostiarra'' (cheeks of hake San Sebastian style), in which several dozen of the thumbnail-sized fish cheeks are served in salsa verde. The shadow of nearby France is evident in the many sauces Basques enjoy, particularly their reknowned salsa verde, which is a fish stock flavored with leeks, garlic and ample pepper.  ''Garlic and parsley are the two most important elements in our cooking,'' explains Jose Louis Garcia, the designated cook one evening at Union Artesanas, a 110-year-old society on the same street as Gaztelupe. As he prepares bacalao al pill pill, probably the quintessential Basque dish, Mr. Garcia points out that Basque cookery is deliberately subtle and ingenious, with recipes designed to accentuate the natural qualities of fresh products.  Bacalao al pill pill, for instance, is such a recipe. ''You can make it with dried, salted bacalao or with many fresh fish. Tonight we're using dried (bacalao) that has been soaked in water for a day,'' instructs Mr. Garcia. ''First you sautee garlic in a big pan or casserole dish using lots of olive oil. When the garlic is golden you put in the strips of bacalao. Over a medium-low flame you slowly shake the pan back and forth, continuing for at least 15 minutes. You will see the sauce begin to rise. At that point you add parsley and some fish stock. Continu e shaking until the s auce has the consistencyof mayonnaise. Then serve.''  The sauce was mild and smooth, close in flavor to a garlic mayonnaise. At Gaztelupe the next evening, there were five different tables set up for a feast that began about 10 P.M. and was still going strong at 12:30 A.M. The menus included fresh tuna in a sauce of crushed tomatoes and onion, squid cooked in their own ink, hake baked with white wine and herbs and garnished with carrots and tiny white potatoes; rape, a succulent white fish, in salsa verde; fresh anchovies grilled with garlic; shrimp salad; smoked cheese; flan (egg custard), and countless glasses of Rioja wine.  The members readily admit that they hold no claims to being eruditegastronomes o r proselytizers of their heritage. Although they do holdoccasional cu linary competitions among the societies and sponsor cooking exhib itions during holidays, for the most part it's just boys' night o ut with good food. F. Gonzalo Munarriz of Gaztelupe likes to tell the story about the night Pio Baroja, the eminent Basque author and poet, wandered into the club. ''We used to have a small library in the front room,'' he recalls. ''Pio Baroja was walking by an d saw our building with the books inside. He thought it was some sort of a literary society, so he came inside. When he saw all the drink ing and smoking and card playing going on, he walked right out in disgust!''  Illustrations: drawing 
