19980220
 Vladimir Dovgan Is A Constant Presence In Capitalist Russia --- His Smiley Face Has Launched A Thousand Shipments, Or Will Have by Year End   By By Betsy McKay, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 20, 1998  The 33-year-old former car mechanic has put his mug -- the official trademark of his AO Dovgan Protected Quality Corp. -- on the labels of 280 consumer goods, ranging from sausage to shampoo. He runs a lottery and a TV game show with big prize giveaways. In self-help books, television shows and videos and at his own business school, he preaches to Russians his personal "formula for success": Be 100% honest, work hard and don't cheat.  Other Russian big shots hide behind bodyguards and the tinted glass of their Mercedes-Benz limousines. But Mr. Dovgan bases his business on his own visibility. "There's a fight on for the consumer," he says, dashing around his company headquarters filled with displays of Dovgan gin, Dovgan detergent and Dovgan styling mousse. "What better way to win them over than with my personal guarantee?"  Mr. Dovgan sells everything he can, not just granola bars and the rest, but also his lifestyle. His 18-hour workdays -- weekends, too -- begin with a dip in a hole drilled in the ice of his outdoor pool. He does that "to cleanse the soul," he says. The 105 rosy-faced young men at his new business school follow his lead, writing patriotic essays and stripping down to their swimming trunks each morning in the predawn cold to douse themselves with buckets of frigid water. The determined Mr. Dovgan, whose company had $400 million in revenue last year, figures that "in 10 years, this will be the world's most profitable company." That's a tall claim for a young, inexperienced business. But competitors are watching Mr. Dovgan closely. "If Western companies aren't worried about him, they should be," says Frank Chipman, a client-services director in the Moscow office of Macro International Inc., a U.S. market-research firm. "Dovgan had a great idea and promoted it to the hilt."   
