19820314
A dozen years ago, in an America of cheap energy and 7 percent mortgages, California-style house, with their steeply pitched rooflines, glass walls, oversized windows, wooden siding and earth-tone colors, were the rage in model homes throughout the East.  Decorated in blues, reds, and yellows, plastered with mirrors that made their open designs seem even more spacious and scented by sprigs of imported aromatic eucalyptus, the California models were promoted as the shelter of the future: Down with the restrictive Eastern colonial boxes, proclaimed the ads, up with openness and freedom.  In 1971, the Larwin Group, a Los Angelesbased builder, opened Greenbrook, a development of California houses in Coram, L.I., where the asbestos-shingled, L-shape ranch and the two-story center-hall colonial of Levitt and Sons dominated. Levitt already had started building California homes in Strathmore East in Coram. Kaufman & Broad, another national builder, had also opened a development in Coram, selling colonial as well as California homes.  Today, Levitt is out of business, Larwin is gone, and no builders are putting up California homes on the Island. All that remains of the battle of the housing giants in the Coram area more than a decade ago are scattered clusters of California homes. Surrounded by ranches and colonials, the California homes seem like artifacts from a bygone civilization of sun worshipers.  Why did the boom in California homes in this are never happen? What went awry?  Greenbrook was planned as a 450-home development on 230 acres along Route 112. There were six models, ranging in price from $40,000 to $50,000. The Levitt and the Kaufman & Broad California designs sold in the $30,000-to-$40,000 range. With three model areas within a several-mile radius devoted to California design, house hunters came by the thousands.  They gawked at the skylights, the seethrough roof overhangs, the cathedral ceilings, the walls of glass doors and oversized windows the children's beds that came in the shpae of Indianapolis racing cars, the silver wallpapered bathrooms, the bold stripes painted across 40-foot walls. They came and they gawked, and many siad they were impressed, but few bought, and sales were slow.  Then came the oil embargo, the jump in energy prices and the credit crunch of 1973-74. Taxes in the Coram area were already high, and prospective buyers now began to worry whether they could afford the additional expense of enormous fuel bills to heat California homes. Levitt as well as Kaufman & Broad, dropped the California designs and returned to their more practical and popular colonials, Larwin sold off most of the land and left Greenbrook in 1974 after having built approximately 100 homes. The revolution, the new era that was to be ushered in bny the California homes, was suddenly over. In the end, the colonial designs had prevailed.  "Actually, I never thought California designs would go out here," said Joseph Mottola, who was Levitt's director of marketing and sales and is now the executive vice president of the Long Island Broad of Realtors.  "I had the company draw up alternate elevations for all our California homes so we could offer buyers the choice of the same homes and colonial designs as well," he continued. "My feeling was that Long Island people tended to be conservative in popular-price-range homes. It is only in the higher price ranges where people will be daring." "We're the only one of all our friends to buy a contemporary home," said Andrea Keneally, who owns one of the largest of the Larwin homes in Greenbrook. "But they all say they would love to have a home like this. Kids are always excited about it. Their mothers always call me up to tell me they can't wait to see our house."  Like many people who have pruchased California homes, Mrs. Keneally and her husbank, Patrick, had been looking for a colonial home similar to the kind in which both had been raised. Then they saw the Larwin model.  "The opennes of the home appealed to us tremendously," Mrs. Keneally said.  The home the family moved into in December 1972 is a classic California design. The visitor walks up a path to the wood-sided home and enters through a massive wooden door inton a living room with a fireplace to the left. Directly ahead is the kitchen and dinning room area, with a floating staircase to the open family room perched over the kitchen and surrounded by balcony rails.  The cathedral ceiling runs fromthe front door along the roofline over both the living and family rooms to the center beam and down the back of the house. There are three bedrooms downstairs and two upstairs off the family room.  Mrs. Keneally has kept much of the California flavor of the original model, with rough-hewn furniture and lightcolored rugs. Directly behind the kitchen areas is a glass wall with sliding doors to the pation and backyard.  "In the summer, it's fabulous here," Mrs. Keneally said.  Nearby, in Levitt Strathmore East, is Phyllis Procida's modified Levitt cape with California-design features, called the Futura.  "I love it," Mrs. Procida said. "I love the floating staircase and cathedral ceiling, the big windows and the sliding glass doors. I love contemporary design." 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
