19810927
By JAMES F. CLARITY STOCKHOLM The talk of the New York Rangers' Scandanavian tour, even more discussed than the Swedish crystal the players bought and the cloudberr y ice cream they ate, was Reijo Ruotsalainen, the small, blond, Finnish defenseman who speaks little English, but is eloquent in body language.  Many of the Rangers say they have seen no one in the National Hockey League, since Bobby Orr retired, who skates as fast and deceptively as Ruotsalainen. The other night, watching a game from the stands, two of the teams' most gifted defensemen, Ron Greschner and Barry Beck, shook their heads slowly in awe as the 21-year-old Finn made a quick 360-degree turn and actually skated backwards carrying the puck past an embarassed Washington Capitals defenseman.  ''If I twisted my legs like that,'' said Greschner, one of the Rangers' skilled puck-movers, ''I'd be dead.'' Beck, one of the more wry Rangers, kept a straight face as he said, ''A little work on his skating and he might make it.'' Other Rangers spoke of Ruotasalainen in other superlatives; Bobby Hull's was ''fantastic.''  Ruotsalainen is only in the dawn of bilingualism, and the Rangers are thinking of hiring someone to teach him English. But coach Herb Brooks, noting that Ruotsalainen has some learning to do in defensive play, feels that the young man needs no instruction in how to vex the opposition while earning the admiration of his teammates.  On Wednesday night, as they clinched a Swedish tournament by winning four straight games, the Rangers won a silver cup and about $900-per man. Ruotsalainen was awarded three of the five individual trophies, small golden owls, at the end of the game. He quickly pointed to goalie Steve Weeks and told his teammates, ''He was better,'' then gave one of the owls to his partner on defense, Tom Laidlaw.  ''That's class,'' said Brooks, who smiles broadly whenever the subject is Ruotsalainen. ''He's got class and the players appreciate that. He's a world-class skater, maybe the fastest defenseman in the league. He will be a sensation in the National Hockey League.''  A month ago few of the Ra ngers had ever hea rd of Ruotsalainen. After playing with them for a week, making tw o goals and four assistsin five exhibition games, he is considered ce rtain to make the team, while other rookies and some veterans are not sure they will be in Madison Square Garden when the Rangers open t he regular season against the Detroit Red Wings a week from Tue sday.  Yet, none of the other defensemen resent him. Ed Hospodar, fighting to hold the job he apparently won late last season, was the first Ranger to shake hands with Ruotsalainen when he took the ice for the first time at a practice in Helsinki. Dave Maloney has befriended him. The players have already given him the seal of acceptance which is a nickname: ''Rexi.'' Carol Vadnais, starting his 17th season in the League, said, ''I haven't seen anyone in the league who can change speeds and accelerate like he can since Orr. Against a guy like this, all you can do is skate backwards and hope.''  Routsalainen was discovered, for the Rangers, by Lars-Erik Sjoberg, one of their scouts in Scandanavia. Last season with Karpat, the Finnish national championship team, he had 55 points, including 30 goals, in 36 games. In the 1980 entry draft, Ruotsalainen was the Rangers sixth round choice. He was not chosen earlier, apparently, because of his size.  By N.H.L. standards, he is an elf: 5-feet,7-inches tall, 165 pounds. But in an interview with Mikko Leinonen, the Rangers' other Finnish rookie, translating, Ruotsalainen said, '' I don't care that I am small. I have learned to use my ability on smaller rinks. '' Whether his skating style will be cramped by the N.H.L. rinks, which are 15 feet narrower than those in Europe, is one of the questions the Rangers have about how effective Ruotsalainen will be once the season starts. Another question is whether larger opponents will try to intimidate him ''gooning,'' the players' term for brutal, illegal checking. ''They have to catch him, first,'' said Brooks. ''He'll have plenty of heavy artillery behind him,'' said one Ranger.  Watching Ruotsalainen in the first five exhibition games, it is easy to get the impression, from time to time, that he is a figureskater who happens to have taken up hockey. When he takes the puck and bends low, with his head up, and starts to move up the ice, spectators murmur ''oooooh'' and ''aaaaah'' in crescendos. Confronted by a defender, he makes no body feints, but swerves to one side, then accelerates. Then, perhap, once or twice a game, he might make a complete turn, so the defender sees him going by backwards.  His wrist shot is quick and accurate; his slap shot is hard and low. Sometimes, if the pass to him is flat on the ice, he does not stap the puck before shooting it, but swats it in one motion as it arrives near his feet. Partly because of his lack of English, he has not much to say after a game. ''Not bad,'' is the highest compliment he has paid himself.  As he sat in the Stockholm airport waiting for the team flight to New York on Thursday, he was asked if he felt nervous. When he didn't understand, an Englanti-Suomi dictionary was consulted for the Finnish word, hermostunut. ''Nervous, here, no.'' the rookie said. ''America, yes.''  Illustrations: Photo of Reijo Ruotsalainen 
