19980413
 Banks Bulking Up: What Happens Next --- Consumers Wonder If Deals Will Deliver Better Service   By By Stephen E. Frank, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 14, 1998  The $60 billion planned megamerger of NationsBank Corp. and BankAmerica Corp. to create the nation's largest bank may have awed the company's rivals, regulators and shareholders. But it didn't impress Robert Stumpenhaus of Liberty, Mo., who has spent the better part of the past few months trying to pay off the mortgage NationsBank has on his house.  "I could see that the right hand didn't know what the left hand was doing," says Mr. Stumpenhaus, who has banked at the same branch since it was Centerre Bank in the 1970s, Boatmen's in the 1980s and NationsBank in the 1990s. Now, as NationsBank plans to merge with BankAmerica, Mr. Stumpenhaus is closing his various accounts. He's moving to United Missouri Bank, a small local bank a few blocks away. "A bank's a bank, and one has been no better or worse than another until all these deals came up," complains Mr. Stumpenhaus, an ex-Marine. "I'm still a pretty young guy. But what about an old man or woman who goes in there to pay something off? All they know is they've got their money in their hand and they want to pay their loan off, and they can't do it."  But for Mr. Stumpenhaus and millions of Americans like him, banking in the modern age remains a far cry from what Mr. McColl wants it to be -- and a far cry from how Mr. Stumpenhaus and others remember it. With little interest in billion-dollar mergers, nationwide franchises, or the promise of one-stop-shopping for financial services, these Americans are more concerned about how much it costs to open a checking account, or use an automated teller, or obtain a loan. They include everyone from fresh-scrubbed college students opening their first bank accounts, to senior citizens living on fixed incomes, to entrepreneurs seeking funding for their small businesses. And they're not happy. "I remember a time when you never paid anything for banking," says Stephen Borow, a 40-year-old hospice coordinator who opened his first account in New York at Irving Bank in the late 1980s, shortly before that bank was acquired by Bank of New York. Unhappy with the new bank's higher account fees, Mr. Borow took his business elsewhere, to NatWest, only to have that bank acquired a few years later by Fleet Financial Group, which raised his service charges yet again.   
