19811227
BOSTON— The bomb that wrecked the headquarters of Prime Minister Robert Mugabe's political party in Salisbury last weekend injected new tensions and uncertainty into one of the world's more hopeful experiments. That is the attempt to build a stable and prosperous state in Zimbabwe under majority rule.  It has been two years since the Lancaster House conference in London settled the long and bitter black-white struggle in Rhodesia, and 20 months since an independent Zimbabwe was born. The record has been one of pluses and minuses. But there has been one undeniable achievement - the restoration of peace and security.  The fighting in Rhodesia went on for 15 years, and it was cruel. In the last year alone, there were 15,000 casualties. When Mr. Mugabe took office, thousands of former guerrillas were confined in crowded camps and there were serious incidents between soldiers of what had been Mr. Mugabe's army and that of his rival, Joshua Nkomo.  Today, terror is a stranger. The rival forces have been merged. Though tribal tensions remain, the countryside is peaceful, and Salisbury is one of the safest cities in the world. Thus the bombing, which killed six people and responsibility for which remains a mystery, was a worse shock because of its contrast with the prevailing situation.  For a reporter who visited the country often during the war years, the striking thing on a recent return visit was the way Zimbabwe had on the whole moved beyond the problems of war and even of transition. The Government faces new challenges with an African cast but familiar to politicians anywhere: frustrated voter expectations, incompatible demands from different constituencies, the conflict of ideology and pragmatism. To take one dramatic example, there are 4,500 white farmers who produce 80 percent of Zimbabwe's food and much grain for export. There are also four million rural blacks who eke out a living and who desperately want more and better land. In a real sense the guerrillas fought and won the war for these peasants. Yet if they were allowed to take over the white farms, the result would likely be economic disaster.  The Mugabe Government deals with such dilemmas by temporizing. It has moved 4,000 black peasant families onto abandoned white land. But one estimate is that 185,000 families - a million people - need to be moved.  Like politicians elsewhere, too, those in Zimbabwe say different things to please different interests. The Herald, Salisbury's daily, recently reported a speech by Mr. Mugabe to a meeting of white farmers reassuring them that ''your future is bright in this country as long as I am in power.'' Three days later, another front-page story reported comments by a Cabinet member, Eddison Zvobgo, that the Government was finding ways to get around the law and take white farmland without compensation.  To help meet black expectations, the Government has raised the minimum industrial wage to $168 a month. But Mr. Mugabe also broke a strike by nurses and teachers.  There are still some very big pluses. Since independence, there has been real growth of 20 percent. Spurred by higher prices, farmers have grown record crops.  But there are serious problems, too. While the white farmers are content, some businessmen and technicians are uneasy and are leaving in an exodus that threatens to leave some key skilled positions unfilled. There is a lack of new investment, either from local capital or from abroad. Investors seem to be worried that they will not be able to get their profits out or that Government policy may turn more socialist, despite an explicit recent statement by Mr. Mugabe that businesses will not be nationalized.  Edward Cross, a respected white economist who is manager of the Dairy Marketing Board, put the balance sheet as follows: ''Those of us who had seen the war through saw little prospect of a reasonable future. What has happened has been remarkable. Law and order have been restored, the economy has recovered and the first real growth has taken place after six bleak years. Our Government has proved to be much more pragmatic than expected, and there have been few recriminations.  ''However, major problems now exist. Shortages of transport, fuel, foreign exchange and skilled manpower will hold economic growth down to a fraction of our potential. Inflation rates are rising rapidly. Investor confidence is virtually nonexistent....''  Mr. Cross said all that in a speech in South Africa, and he added a plea to Zimbabwe's powerful white-ruled neighbor. Please, he said, stop doing things that deliberately hurt the economy of Zimbabwe. Examples are South Africa's sudden termination of a trade agreement, its temporary withdrawal of 25 locomotives on loan and its support for Mozambique guerrillas who disrupt Zimbabwe's shipments through that country to the sea.  South Africa's attitude is a crucial part of the new reality that faces Mr. Mugabe. Though he has forbidden anti-South African guerrilla activity from Zimbabwe, he criticizes apartheid. Pretoria no doubt finds his words provocative. But many observers think its economic measures have a broader purpose: to keep Zimbabwe and other black countries dependent on South Africa.  Zimbabweans tend to blame traumatic events on South African subversion. That was so when the bomb went off in Salisbury, though no evidence was produced. Suspicions also extended to Zimbabwe's whites. Most want to forget the past, but Ian Smith and other whites who sit in Parliament under the terms of the Lancaster House settlement are unreconstructed symbols of that past.  The bombing seems likely to increase pressure on Mr. Mugabe to consolidate black power, perhaps even to firm up and carry out his vague talk of a one-party state - a step that would increase white flight and surely please South Africa. Mr. Mugabe already bears an enormous burden as the one figure to whom the mass of the population and the few but important whites look with confidence. He will not find it easier to hold the ring.  Illustrations: photo of Zimbabwean worker and grain bags 
