19811128
THE new tax law has given the old custom of merit awards a lift, and many workers may receive unexpected holiday presents from their employers as a result.  Companies may now claim a tax deduction for noncash awards such as a gold watch, a silver bowl, a string of pearls or a set of golf clubs, so long as the value of the gifts does not exceed $400 per person. If a company has a formal, written merit plan that does not discriminate in favor of officers, shareholders or highly paid employees, an employee could get a gift worth as much as $1,600 as long as all the gifts bestowed under the plan averaged no more than $400.  Previously, a company could claim a deduction of no more than $100 for gifts that rewarded an employee's length of service or good safety record. Not only has the tax act liberalized the amount of gifts for which deductions can be claimed, but it has also added high productivity to the list of factors for which the awards can be given.  Despite the change in the law, the $25 limit on general business gifts - for example, a bottle of Chivas Regal to outsiders such as valued customers or the traditional Thanksgiving turkey to all employees regardless or merit - still stands. Companies can be more generous, of course, but then they and not Uncle Sam must pay the bill.  ''It's a way to make a nice Christmas gesture,'' Sol J. Upbin, a tax partner specializing in compensation matters with the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen & Company, said of the liberalized merit awards. Their biggest use will be for lower- and middle-echelon employees, he predicted, adding that, ''for top executives, giving them another $400 is like giving them a turkey.''  But Congress may have been an Indian giver, as far as the merit awards are concerned. That is because the amount of the gift might or might not be taxable to the employee, depending on who is talking.  Initially, the Internal Revenue Service had said the gifts were taxable in just the same way as year-end bonuses. Larry Batdorf, an I.R.S. spokesman, cited the case of someone making $40,000 a year who received a $500 cash bonus last Christmas, before the new law was passed, and this year receives a gift worth $500 instead. ''That $500 was considered part of his total compensation and was taxable last year,'' Mr. Batdorf said. ''Is the law now saying that $400 of that gift is deductible, even though it's being given for exactly the same reason?''  But the I.R.S., which has yet to issue a formal ruling on the issue, may be on the verge of changing its bureaucratic mind. ''We haven't thrashed it out yet,'' said Mr. Batdorf, who added that while the agency initially thought the awards were taxable, there are now ''some people here who think otherwise.''  Among those who disagree with the I.R.S. are Republican Senators Jake Garn of Utah and John Chafee of Rhode Island, who maintain Congressional intent under both the old and the new provisions was that the awards be tax-free to employees. They point to a ''clarification'' placed in the Congressional Record by the ranking members of the Senate Finance Committee, Bob Dole, Republican of Kansas, and Russell Long, Democrat of Louisiana, which said that such gifts ''should not be discouraged by the tax laws.''  The Research Institute of America, publisher of tax materials for professionals, observed that while the question may not have arisen before because of the modest $100 ceiling, ''the new rule permitting individual awards of up to $1,600 may require resolution of the question.''  Even though the I.R.S. may finally rule that the gifts are taxable, ''that is not necessarily the ultimate answer,'' said Sidney Weinman, a lawyer and senior editor with the Research Institute. Taxpayers could contest that interpretation by filing suit and asking the courts to decide, or Congress could clarify the issue by dealing with it in a technical corrections act that is expected to be enacted next year, he said.  In any case, some employers are not waiting for the matter to resolved. Mr. Upbin said that he had received several inquiries from clients about setting up an expanded merit award program and that one large financial services company had already decided to establish one.  The plan calls for giving clerical workers year-end awards of small gold coins and silver ingots. ''They're liquid like cash, and gold is selling for about $400 an ounce,'' he noted, adding that employees would easily be able to convert the precious metals into cash. The company plans to continue its existing policy of giving cash yearend bonuses and incentive payments to higher level employees, he added.  Illustrations: drawing 
