19811028
BOSTON, Oct. 27— This week got off to a delayed and soggy start in Boston, but it wasn't dull. Hampered for the last few days by a union slowdown, the result of a dispute over work rules, the subway and trolley system failed to work at all yesterday as the morning flow of 260,000 riders was about to start.  Thousands of workers waited at stations in the rain, which began Sunday. Then as many as 15,000 of them, by official estimates, grew tired of waiting and defected to their cars, which soon jammed the narrow, winding old streets of the financial and retail area downtown. At 8:30 A.M., the attendant at a 600-space commercial garage on Washington Street began to chant, three hours earlier than he ever had before: ''Filled up! Filled up! Go around the block!''  The morass lasted into the afternoon, and as the drivers inched their way through the geometric puzzle of the downtown streets, they could hear the news on their car radios. The Boston Symphony Orchestra's capital fund drive had raised $20 million, preserving Boston's image as ''the Athens of America,'' said Jane Bradley, chairman of the drive. With that word, the symphony's 130 musicians and managers flew off from Logan International Airport for a threeweek tour of Japan and Western Europe, leaving the city's remaining citizens to contemplate the damp realities of the American Athens.  The trolley and subway system had been halted by a predawn fire that gutted the first floor of the Massachusetts Bay Transporation Authority's headquarters downtown. In addition to making it difficult for the authority's employees to get to work, the blaze destroyed thousands of worker's compensation records that were under investigation by the authority for spurious claims.  ''We are assuming absolutely no connection between the fire last night and the slowdown on the M.B.T.A. system,'' James F. Carlin, the State Transportation Director, said yesterday morning. ''But if there is, somebody better come to their senses pretty fast before someone gets killed.''  By the afternoon, Gov. Edward J. King announced that the state police would help guard the system's eight power stations while security plans were under review. ''Someone deliberately set the fire,'' said the Governor, who offered a $10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of anyone responsible.  As Massachusetts legislators made their way through the leaden traffic to the State House to begin another week, a political impasse of the last several months was joined again, then quickly sundered. The State Supreme Judicial Court ruled that Governor King had been correct in vetoing parts of the 1982 state budget that would have downgraded the Boston and Springfield Housing Courts and demoted their chief justice, E. George Daher.  Judge Daher had charged that the provisions, forced through the Senate by its President, William J. Bulger, were Mr. Bulger's way of punishing him for refusing to appoint the son of a lifelong friend and ally of Mr. Bulger's to the job of Housing Court clerk. The matter of the unmade appointment, said to be the result of a deathbed promise by Mr. Bulger to his late friend Patrick J. McDonough, has been the heart of a boiling controvery here for weeks.  Mr. Bulger has denied the charge on the Senate floor, but, characteristically, has refused to speak about it in public to reporters. From their respective legislative and judicial chambers, he and Judge Daher have accused each other of lying about the subject. Only one state senator has been outspokenly critical of Mr. Bulger and resistant to his rule in the upper house.  He is Alan D. Sisitsky. Yesterday, as he argued out of order in an attempt to have Mr. Bulger removed from the chair, Mr. Bulger exercised the powers peculiar to the Senate president and had Mr. Sisitsky removed, barring him from debating or voting on Senate issues or entering the chamber again.  It is believed to be the first time in the 201-year-history of the Massachusetts Senate that the rule has been invoked. ''I'm not upset,'' Mr. Sisitsky told The Boston Globe afterward. ''It's like being tossed out of a bordello.''  Today, as the rain continued, three officials of the Boston Redevelopment Authority waited to testify before a Federal grand jury here that is investigating allegations of extortion lodged against the administration of Mayor Kevin H. White.  George Collatos, an administrative assistant in the authority, was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in an undercover operation last Wednesday and charged wih accepting $12,500 in marked money from a contractor seeking a building permit for a cement plant. The contractor, the Lawrence Ready Mix Concrete Corporation, had had some permits issued and then withdrawn by the authority.  The company complained to the bureau of being ''shaken down'' after one of its owners was told by Mr. Collatos, according to an F.B.I. affidavit, that ''he would never get into Boston unless he took care of the Mayor.''  Mr. White, who has dominated the city for the last decade as Mayor, may testify before the grand jury tomorrow. But he has said that ''I am offended to have my name mentioned personally'' and that he has ''absolutely no idea why'' he has been subpoenaed. Disassociating himself from anything that Mr. Collatos may have said, the Mayor promised to give the public a question-and-answer account of his session with the grand jury. And the weather service said the rain might end on Thursday.  Illustrations: photo of state policemen guarding transit system power station 
