20040102
 Stock Funds Were No Scandal; Year That Marked the Uncovering Of Harmful Practices Also Yielded Strong Gains, Reversing Pain   By Damato, Karen, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 2, 2004  The annual report that Perritt MicroCap Opportunities Fund distributed this week, for instance, reflects the two-sided nature of 2003 for fund investors: On page 3, Michael Corbett, fund president and co-manager, reports on "a banner year" for the tiny-stock portfolio -- it gained 65.3% in the fiscal year through October (and a nearly identical figure for calendar 2003). On the next page, fund co- manager and founder Gerald Perritt bemoans the "nefarious schemes" that have hurt investors at some other fund firms and which he frets could prompt some investors to shy away from funds in the future.  Small stocks often take the lead as the economy climbs out of a recession. But at some point, "large stocks are going to have their day in the sun again," says John Montgomery, president of Bridgeway Capital Management Inc. In its next shareholder report, Bridgeway, which manages two "ultra-small" portfolios sporting gains of 80% and 90%, respectively, as of Tuesday, plans to remind shareholders to recheck their asset allocations.  As always, fund managers offer widely varied views on how the stock market and stock funds will perform in the future. Citing a strong economy, low interest rates and a firming job market, Bill Miller, manager of the $9.3 billion Legg Mason Value Trust, counts himself in the optimists' camp. "I'd be more surprised if equities were up just 7% to 8% [in 2004] than if they were up 30% plus," Mr. Miller said at a news briefing last month. His fund gained 43.02% through Tuesday, topping the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index for the 13th consecutive calendar year. But far less positive is Robert Arnott, manager of Pimco All Asset Fund and chairman of First Quadrant LP, a money- management firm in Pasadena, Calif. Mr. Arnott expects inflation to rise over the next few years and to eat up all the nominal return from stocks. So he is betting heavily on inflation-indexed Treasury bonds.   
