20031203
 Where the TV Christmas Past Is Present   By Phillips, Barbara D, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 4, 2003  [Andy Williams] was the first major non-country star to build a venue here, the handsome 2,054-seat Moon River Theatre, which opened in 1992. The Christmas edition of his show ends its run on Dec. 10, and next year Ann-Margret will join him onstage in spring and fall engagements. Mr. Williams, a surprisingly petite man who turned a spry 76 yesterday, is still in fine voice, and when he invited children up on the stage shrouded in fake snow to join him in Christmas songs, he showed the same low-key rapport of decades ago. Among his concessions to age: a version of "My Favorite Things" that mentioned denture cleanser and the like. His only concession to modern musical trends: the "Christmas Rap" he delivered in sunglasses and a backward-facing baseball cap. [Glen Campbell] had teamed up with Mr. Williams until recently but -- much to the relief of the helpful folks at the Branson/Lakes Area Chamber of Commerce -- had moseyed out of town about a month before his drunken-driving arrest and unexpected photo op.  The teetotalist Osmond family set up shop here several years ago, too. Through Dec. 11, brothers Jay, Merrill and Wayne, who got their big break from Mr. Williams in 1962, becoming regulars on his TV series, are performing "Christmas With the Osmonds" in Mr. Williams's theater on the same simple snow-and-lamplights set. Their youngest brother stars in "Jimmy Osmond's American Jukebox Show" in a theater nearby.  Nearly all the shows in town are priced well below New York or Vegas tabs and offer reduced-price or free tickets for kids, who at the performances I attended were remarkably well-behaved. In fact, folks of all ages, tourist and native, were unfailingly polite and friendly during my visit. It's that kind of town, one that, despite the outlet malls and familiar fast-food restaurants, summons up images straight from an old-fashioned primer. And there are three McGuffey's restaurants in town based on that schoolbook theme. The ladies' room in the one I visited featured slates on the inside of each stall door; a basket of chalk beneath invited comments. My one-stall survey on Saturday found biblical verses and the like. The one secular comment, "Go Huskers," was suitable for children of all ages.   
