19810911
TONIGHT at 10 on Channel 7, ABC News spends an hour in a documentary produced by Stephen Fleischman and anchored by Marshall Frady, surveying some of the ramifications of the geneticengineering revolution. The program begins with some of the promises, including new drugs that could expand the quality and length of human life. It ends with some of the moral and ethical questions being raised when, as one religious man puts it, ''scientists begin to be able to tamper with the kind of basic mystery of life that we have accepted as God's gift.''  However, the major focus of ''The Gene Merchants'' is on the ''headlong rush to profit'' that has been generated by gene research. Science has come to Wall Street in the form of investments in ''dazzling possibilities.'' The race is on to mine profits from genesplicing knowledge that has just emerged from the laboratory. When one genetic-engineering company went public in October 1980, its stock went from $39 a share to $89 in 60 seconds, logging the fastest rise in Wall Street history.  With William Sherman as the reporter, ''The Gene Merchants'' explores some of the more questionable aspects of this boom, particularly the f act that ''the excitement over potential profits has s pread to the universities.'' It is concluded that ''n ever has the connection between campus and industry been so pervasi ve.'' Amongthe more sensational charges mentioned is that laboratory material issometimes stolen to get a jump on the competition. It is a lso noted that, not surprisingly, corporate money is strongly influe ncing the direction of supposedly objective research.  The subject does not lend itself readily to visual liveliness. Shots of microscopic enlargements and scientists peering into test tubes can go only so far. ''The Gene Merchants'' occasionally overcompensates with voice-overs on pretty scenes of romping children or with the sounds of mesmerizing music. But Mr. Sherman's investigations remain engrossing.  Locally, tomorrow at 7:30 P.M., WABC, Channel 7, is rerunning ''An Essay on Drugs,'' first broadcast last April, as the close of a special ''drug watch'' series that has been woven into the station's programming over the last couple of weeks. The half-hour essay, produced and narrated by Gil Noble, is offered as a warning to young viewers. It is certainly not for the squeamish. As Bill Fyffe, the station's general manager, notes in a postscript, it is frightening and shocking, ''but it's real and it's true.''  Mr. Noble addresses himself to his ''young brothers and sisters,'' who might be underestimating the dangers of taking drugs, even such supposedly harmless ones as alcohol or marijuana. In the boiler room of an abandoned tenement, he interviews three junkies who became addicted in the 1960's. They began with the supposedly harmless drugs and now need the stronger stuff ''just to feel normal.'' Down and out, covered with ulcerated needle sores, they are finished (one has since died). The piece ends with the men looking for new injection points, in the armpit or groin. Watching is extremely difficult, but the warning will not be forgotten.  Channel 13 is ending a series of programs commemorating the 100th anniversary of organized labor with a documentary called ''Bread and Roses.'' Being broadcast tomorrow at 9 P.M., the hourlong film captures aspects of a cultural program devised in 1979 by District 1199 of the National Union of Hospital and Health Care Employees. The goal is to bring a broad range of entertainments to hospital patients and health-care-institution workers. Among the performers glimpsed here are Jane Fonda, Ruby Dee, Ossie Davis, Pete Seeger, Stephanie Mills and the late Sam Levenson.  The bread-and-roses theme was taken from a 1912 poem by James Oppenheim who was inspired by a banner being carried by striking Lawrence, Mass., textile workers. The point was that we live not by bread alone, but by roses, too. The special entertainments recorded in this film are diverting, but the most moving moments are reserved for the 1979 efforts of hospital workers, union officials and concerned citizens to head off the closing of Brooklyn Jewish Hospital. The story evokes a remarkable sense of neighborhood and human harmony, all of which is conveyed movingly by Marc Levin, the producer. 
