19980303
 Wireless Carriers Try New Hook to Win Customers --- Companies Use Slick Come-Ons, Target Students to Sell Prepaid Service   By By Elizabeth Jensen, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 4, 1998  In the past, such a credit-deficient group -- most students are too young to have any -- would have barely caught the attention of Bell Atlantic Mobile, the company's wireless unit. But the phone service figured the students were a perfect target for wireless with a twist: instead of getting carte blanche from the phone company to run up bills, the students were offered the option of paying for calls in advance. As wireless competition grows with last year's aggressive entry of PCS carriers into many markets, the scramble for customers has intensified. With the easy targets -- large businesses and wealthy consumers -- already picked off in the past decade, wireless companies are trolling further downstream.  In the U.S., prepaid customers are a fraction of the market, or an estimated 1% to 2% of 54 million wireless subscribers. But that is changing. Fifty-five percent of Bell Atlantic-rival Omnipoint Corp.'s PCS clients are on prepaid plans, as are 50% of the customers at PrimeCo Personal Communications LP -- the PCS joint venture of AirTouch, Bell Atlantic and US West Media Group. Dennis Leibowitz, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, estimated recently that prepaid customers will make up 25% of all new wireless sign-ups in 1998. Mark Lowenstein, a wireless analyst for Boston consultant Yankee Group Inc. guesses it is closer to 10%, arguing that many providers still charge a premium for prepaid air time.  The prospects for prepaid wireless haven't looked better. It initially enjoyed a more unsavory reputation, as the option for customers who couldn't pass a credit check. They comprise an estimated 30% to 40% of all new applicants for wireless service. Billboards pitching prepaid services dot such poor neighborhoods as Brooklyn's East New York. And drug dealers are widely believed to be among the cash-based businesses that regularly sign up. But prepaid plans, many introduced in the past year, are getting a new veneer of respectability, as companies realize the services appeal to a range of mainstream consumers, from students to military personnel, who move frequently and don't want to sign long contracts. Companies that initially lagged behind in offering such plans, including Bell Atlantic Mobile, are "getting more aggressive," says Yankee's Mr. Lowenstein.   
