19810910
An electric power failure disrupted Wall Street yesterday afternoon, forcing stock exchanges to close a half hour early and upsetting the operations of some banks and brokerage houses. (Page D1.) Major department stores also closed early, major buildings were blacked out and subways were delayed. Consolidated Edison said a generator exploded from unexplained causes. (A1.) Backup power supplies at many companies eased the impact, however. (B9.)  Consumers bought $1.95 billion more on credit than they paid off in July, the Federal Reserve Board reported. It said that new installment debt was taken on more slowly than in June, but that the old debt was liquidated more slowly, too. Economists predicted consumers would be cautious until interest rates fell. (D1.)  G.O.P. leaders in Congress threatened to seek credit controls or a windfall tax on interest on the financial markets. (A1.) Continuing high interest rates could impair the economy next year, the President was warned by his senior economic advisers. (D1.) International  The French Cabinet approved a sweeping nationalization plan. The state would assume control of 36 private banks and 11 big industrial groups. Trading in their shares was suspended. Financial details of the multibillion-dollar takeover were not divulged. (D1.)  British trade union delegates opened a bitter attack on Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's austerity policies. The group called for $33 billion in Government economic stimulus. (A15.)  The U.S. and Nigeria signed two technical aid accords and agreed to several steps meant to improve commercial relations. (A13.) Energy  The price of natural gas won't rise to the level of world oil prices if gas prices are decontrolled, according to a Mellon Institute report to be presented to a Congressional committee today. (D2.)  Alaska could develop a ''world-scale'' petrochemicals and liquefied-gas industry as early as the late 1980's, a year-long, $5.5 million study by Shell Oil and Dow Chemical cautiously concluded. (D6.) Markets  The Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.76 points, to 853.88. Special-situation and technology issues made the best gains. (D8.) Interest rates declined modestly. (D12.) Gold rose $14.30 an ounce, to $446.30, on the Comex in New York. The dollar declined at home and abroad. (D14.) Coffee futures prices rose. (D14.) Companies  International Harvester will dismiss up to 2,000 managers and salaried employees and condense its five divisions into three. (D6.)  Iowa sued Fedders, accusing the company of knowingly producing defective air conditioners and heat pumps. The complaints were similar to earlier ones made by three other states. (D5.)  United Airlines entered the air express package delivery service, undaunted by other airlines' failures in the field. (D4.)  Cayman Island Reinsurance announced it had dismissed its chief executive. The company said he might have misled directors about transactions involving John Muir & Company. (D5.)  Ramada Inns reported a refinancing of its casino-hotel project in Atlantic City, which has had large cost overruns. The company said the move would give it an immediate loss, but would improve chances for future profits. (D6.)  ACLI International, a commodity and security brokerage, will be acquired by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. (D4.)  The Minneapolis Star and the Des Moines Register are to merge under an agreement in principle reached by directors. (A23.) Today's Columns  New methods are being used to squeeze more information into messages as computers become faster and cheaper. Without data compression, many new communications techniques would probably be uneconomical. Technology. (D2.)  Persons about to retire can invest pension money in debt securities in Individual Retirement Accounts and double it in five years, a vice president of the Girard Bank says. Market Place. (D8.) 
