20050302
 Cross Country: Pryor Impressions   By Hillyer, Quin, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 3, 2005  National critics have gone to prodigious lengths to muddy that home- state record. Unfairly so. Consider that critics have accused Judge [Bill Pryor] of being insensitive to women because he successfully argued against one small portion of the Violence Against Women Act. But Judge Pryor's constitutional point was virtually incontrovertible, namely that rape doesn't qualify as "interstate commerce." His goal was to keep authority for prosecuting rapes in state courts, where (in Alabama at least) the juries are likely to be harder on rapists than elsewhere. Meanwhile, he has been praised throughout Alabama by groups that aid victims of domestic violence. Mobile's Penelope House women's shelter even named him to its Law Enforcement Hall of Fame.  Critics have also accused him of race-based opposition to one portion of the Voting Rights Act. Why, then, is Judge Pryor supported by Alabama's lone black, Democratic congressman, and by its two most prominent black, Democratic legislators, and by its black Democratic National Committeeman? And on the case in question, Judge Pryor was backed by Georgia's black, Democratic AG, Thurbert Baker, who also endorsed Bill Pryor's judicial nomination.  Obviously, there is a disconnect between the interest-group and liberal-media assumption that Southern conservatives, especially Alabama ones, likely have racist tendencies, and the obvious reality of Judge Pryor's genuinely warm relationships with so many of Alabama's black leaders. Part of the explanation lies in the fact that Alabama has indeed come a long way since Bull Connor. Also important is that Judge Pryor's native Mobile, especially its old-line Catholic sector in which he grew up, handled civil rights with far more aplomb than Bull Connor's Birmingham -- and with virtually no violence. Early on, then-Mayor Joseph Langan peacefully integrated the city's bus lines. And Bill Pryor's own high school, where his father was band director, integrated comfortably in the '60s, well before he matriculated.   
