19811220
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Dec. 19— For Tracy Austin, the challenges of tennis are welcome every day; for Chris Evert Lloyd, those challenges have become increasingly more difficult.  And so it was tonight that Miss Austin, 19 years old, overwhelmed Mrs. Lloyd, who will be 27 on Monday, 6-1, 6-2, in the semifinals of the $250,000 Toyota Series tennis championships.  Miss Austin will face Martina Navratilova on Sunday night for the $75,000 first prize and perhaps consideration for the year's No.1 spot. Miss Navratilova eliminated her doubles partner, Pam Shriver, 6-4, 7-6.  ''I think if I win tomorrow, I should be No.1,'' said Miss Navratilova, the Australian Open and Avon champion, who has earned more than $800,000 this year. ''There's no doubt about it.'' Mrs. Lloyd is currently ranked No.1.  In beating Miss Shriver for the 10th time in 12 matches, Miss Navratilova served confidently, volleyed deftly and even tried topspin on her backhand passing shots. She aggravated a pulled groin muscle early in the first set, but there was nothing wrong with the way Miss Navratilova moved on the opening point of the second-set tiebreaker.  In a marvelous display of her athletic ability, Miss Navratilova made corner-to-corner gets on Miss Shriver's overheads and then won the point with a running forehand pass down the line. She swept the tiebreaker, 7-1, with a forehand cross-court service return winner.  Miss Navratilova leads in the series with Miss Austin, 16-12, but Miss Austin has a 3-2 edge this year. One more Austin victory could further complicate any definitive ranking among the two finalists and Mrs. Lloyd, the Wimbledon champion, who is No.1 on the computer. Decisive Victory  That Miss Austin should defeat Mrs. Lloyd so decisively, in 1 hour 16 minutes, may have disappointed many in the crowd of 9,156 in Byrne Meadowlands Arena. Last Thursday night the two engaged in a classic three-set marathon, which Mrs. Lloyd won in a decisive tiebreaker.  But Mrs. Lloyd admittedly had geared herself mentally to play Miss Shriver in the semifinals and perhaps Miss Navratilova or Miss Austin in the final. The burden of committing to another potentially long, tedious struggle, with the taste of a 3-hour 18-minute victory still fresh, appeared to be more than Mrs. Lloyd was prepared to deal with. Even Mrs. Lloyd's choice of a midnight blue outfit seemed to capture her dark attitude toward the rematch.  By contrast, Miss Austin seemed to profit from the mistakes of her close, frustrating loss and grew more confident throughout tonight's encounter. She dropped the opening service game at love, trailed, 30-15, in the second game and then swept nine consecutive games, using drop shots to combat Mrs. Lloyd's drop shots, driving corner-tocorner and even moving in occasionaly to cut off volleys.  Mrs. Lloyd won only 10 points in the last six games of the opening set and did not hold serve until she trailed, 1-5, in the second set. The victory was Miss Austin's ninth in 16 matches against Mrs. Lloyd. She remains the only player with a career edge over Mrs. Lloyd. 'Much More Confident'  ''I was much more confident on the court this time,'' Miss Austin said, citing her grooved shots and concentration on court position as factors.  Miss Austin has beaten Mrs. Lloyd as decisively in the past. In 1980, three straight-set losses to Miss Austin in the span of 10 days, when Mrs. Lloyd said her mind and heart were not in the game, prompted Mrs. Lloyd to drop off the circuit for three months and consider retirement.  Interestingly, the two players differed in their opinions over tonight's outcome. Miss Austin thought Mrs. Lloyd should have had the advantage because of her experience. ''That's going to help her in big matches,'' she said. ''The more experience you have the better off you are.''  Earlier, Mrs. Lloyd said, ''I've been through a lot more tense matches. Every tense match drains you a lot more. She's capable of playing 10 more years of tense matches. That's why I'm playing fewer tournaments.''  In many respects, about the only element that the two players share in common is their two-handed backhand. On the court, Miss Austin is a tidy housekeeper, her towel always neatly folded. Mrs. Lloyd looks like she is one step away from the beach.  Their personality differences contribute to the drama of their rivalry. When both are playing well, their baseline duels are unsurpassed. But when one or the other has the slightest hesitation, it results in one-sided scores; only four of their 16 matches have been three-setters.  ''She was mentally more psyched up for the match than I was,'' Mrs. Lloyd said, speaking uncharacteristcally soft at her post-match news conference, almost as if she did not want to be heard.  Mrs. Lloyd said playing Miss Austin twice in one week required a ''different frame of mind'' than for serve-and-volley stylists like Miss Shriver and Miss Navratilova. Controversy Over Format  Asked about the double-elimination format of the tournament, with its coin toss to decide the semifinal pairings, Mrs. Lloyd, said, ''I didn't complain before, so I'm not going to complain now.''  But the double elimination format, as with the round-robin format at the men's Masters Tournament, remain controversial. And events here this week underscored the problem.  In the case of the Masters, its round-robin format has opened the way for players to intentionally lose matches in order to try to predetermine their place in the draw or an opponent in a later round. This was the charge leveled at Ivan Lendl by Jimmy Connors last year, since Lendl, by losing to Connors in the round-robin, avoided facing Bjorn Borg in the semifinals. Connors lost to Borg, and Lendl then defeated Gene Mayer and reached the final, where he lost to Borg.  Concern over the problem caused the women to change from a roundrobin to a double-elimination format several years ago. But the double-elimination, while assuring a competitive program in group play, again called for a coin toss to determine whether Mrs. Lloyd would face Miss Austin or Miss Shriver a second time. Mrs. Lloyd had beaten both in group play during the week.  Officials on the women's tour say they welcome a better alternative to the double elimination. ''When we saw the round-robin system had flaws, we came up with another system,'' Mrs. Jones said. ''If we find this system needs refinement, we'll be glad to hear it.''  But the problem for the Volvo Masters and Toyota Series involves philosophy. By adopting the round-robin format Masters officials have the advantage of publicizing potentially attractive matches weeks in advance.  There is already the likelihood that either a John McEnroe-Connors or Connors-Lendl match will be slotted for the Thursday night date of this season's Masters, which will be held Jan. 13 through 17 at Madison Square Garden. Under an eight-player single-elimination format, no such advance promotion could be achieved.  Illustrations: photo of Tracy Austin 
