19820129
Yehudi Menuhin will join a protegee of his, Edna Michell, when he appears with the Brooklyn Philharmonia, conducted by Lukas Foss, tonight and tomorrow at 8 and Sunday at 3 P.M. in the Brooklyn Academy of Music. They will be the soloists in Bach's Concerto in D minor for Two Violins and Strings. Mr. Menuhin will be the solist for Ernest Bloch's Concerto for Violin and Orchestra. Also on the program are two arrangements of Bach: selections from William Malloch's ''The Art of Fuguing'' and Anton Webern's version of the Ricercata from the ''Musical Offering.'' Tickets: $6 to $10.50, at the box office, at the Edison Theater, Broadway and 47th Street, or through Chargit: 944-9300 ($3 for those younger than 22 and the elderly an hour before performance). Travel and other information: 636-4100.  KUROSAWA AT 107TH ST.  A series of 19 films by acclaimed directors , presented by MacmillanTheatrical Films, gets under way today at the Olympia Quad, Broadway and 107th Street, with two films by Akira Kur osawa, each starring Toshiro Mifune. In ''Yojimbo'' (1961), Mr. Mi fune plays a samurai who outwits two warring families by offering his services as a bodyguard to both of them. But he murders a k ing in ''Throne of Blood'' (1957), a version of ''Macbeth'' set in medieval Japan. The doublebill also plays tomorrow. Admission: $3 to $4 and sometimes $2 for the elderly, depending on the day and tim e; $2 for children. Information: 865-8128. MOZART SPOKEN HERE  Bilingual Mozart is this weekend's fare from the Opera Production Group of the Henry Street Settlement's music school. Tonight and Sunday afternoon, the Opera Group will sing ''The Magic Flute'' in English, tomorrow and Monday nights in German. The production is fully staged, with costumes and sets, and four separate casts. The settlement's opera orchestra will be conducted by Paul West. The singers and players include both students and professionals. The site is the Louis Abrons Arts for Living Center, 466 Grand Street. Evenings at 7:30, matinee at 4 P.M. Tickets are $5 ($3 for students and the elderly). Information: 598-0400. Saturday WINTER CARNIVAL IN PARK  To get away from it all without really getting away at all, you might try sliding across the Great Lawn of Central Park. A thousand pairs of cross-country skis, along with boots and poles, will be available for free use, a half-hour at a time, in the fourth annual New York Winter Festival on Saturday from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. There will free instruction, demonstrations and races as well as snow sculpture contests. The best way to get there is by the entrances at Central Park West and GOG jump 81st or 85th Streets or Fifth Avenue and 79th or 84th Streets. RENAISSANCE KIDDING What distinguishes the shawm from the flute? Is the sackbut something you shoot? Do krummhorns have strings? Do viols have wings? And is the dulcian a lute or a fruit?  Everything you wanted to know about early musical instruments will be revealed by the New York Renaissance Band on Saturday with the help of Peter Johnson, a limerick-prone narrator. The 12-member band, directed by Sally Logemann, will present a ''Young People's Guide to the Renaissance Band'' at 11 A.M. at the Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street. Also on the program will be a bass baritone, Andrew Schultz, who will complain of a dry throat and bad memory while performing a 17th-century piece called ''The Reluctant Musician.'' Tickets are $4. Information: 854-5400. BEST OF THE AILEY REP  In a retrospective of their ''greatest hits,'' the Alvin Ailey Repertory Ensemble - the second company of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater - will offer a blend of jazz, ballet and modern dance Saturday at 8 P.M. and Sunday at 2 P.M. in the Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts at Brooklyn College. The program will include ''Echoes in Blue,'' to the music of Duke Ellington, and ''Between the Shadows,'' to music by Bela Bartok. Tickets are $7 and $8. For information and to charge, call 434-1900. EXOTIC SONG IN TRIBECA  Eerily expressive music will fill the Alternative Museum, at 17 White Street in the TriBeCa section, on Saturday at 8 P.M. when the Harmonic Choir chants, using a technique in which each of its seven singers produces more than one tone at once. Their overtone method, in which the tongue moves back and forth from the back of the throat to the front of the mouth, is indigenous to the folk and religious music of Mongolia and Tibet. The museum is three blocks south of Canal Street on the corner of the Avenue of the Americas. Admission is $5. Information: 966-4444. Sunday ZANY 'ROMEO' IN QUEENS  A zany version of ''Romeo and Juliet,'' incorporating mime and words in the style of the Italian commedia dell'arte - with costumes and masks of the period - will be presented by the Richard Morse Mime Company on Sunday at 2:30 P.M. at Queensborough Community College. It's a show for children, called ''Carried Away,'' and spoofs feuding families. The college, in Bayside, Queens, is at Springfield Boulevard and 56th Avenue, just off exit 29 of the Long Island Expressway. Admission is $2.75. Information: 631-6311. POE READING IN BRONX  To celebrate the 173d anniversary of Edgar Allan Poe's birth, the Bronx County Historical Society will present a reci tal of his poetry Sunday afternoon at 2 at the Edgar Allan Poe Cottage on the Grand Concourse and East Kingsbridge Road in the Br onx. The society administers the cottage, which was the writer 's final home. The reading will be by members of the New York Po etry Forum, Doreen LyonsGallagher, Dave Brown and Ellen Rush. Admissi on is free. A donation of $1 is asked for a tour of the house. REMBRANDT AT PURCHASE  Rembrandt's innovative printmaking techniques and use of subject matter transformed the tradition of etching in the 17th-century Netherlands. An exhibition examining the impact of Rembrandt's graphic work on artists up to the present time opens today in the Neuberger Museum on the State University campus at Purchase, N.Y. Some 40 works will be on show, including 10 by Rembrandt. Among the other artists are Whistler, Degas, Matisse and Picasso. There is no admission charge. The college is in Westchester County, about 40 miles north of Manhattan. Travel and other information: (914) 253-5087. Eleanor Blau 
