19820223
WASHINGTON, Feb. 22— Fear stalks this city, fear of getting caught leaking a document. Or is it paranoia? Consider the recent release of President Reagan's proposed 1983 budget. It was preceded by the usual spate of leaks from one source or another unhappy with what the President had in mind for some favorite program. One such leak consisted of most of the budget for the Department of Health and Human Services. But it arrived with the tops and bottoms of every page clipped off.  The reason, the leaker explained confidentially to the leakee, was that some Government photocopying machines printed out a strange line of little dots across the tops and bottoms of each page. They seemed to be deliberatly but irregularly spaced, suggesting a code, like the bar codes that supermarkets use to identify and price each item. Fearful that he was leaving ''fingerprints'' on his disclosure, he took the precaution of excising the dots.  Were the leaker's fears warranted? A spokesman for the General Services Administration, which buys photocopiers and everything else for Government agencies, wasn't sure. He said that there was no Government-wide policy of giving the machines ''fingerprints.'' But he added that it was possible that individual agencies or offices with sensitive missions might order such devices independently.  Meanwhile, more and more would-be leakers seem convinced that their copies are in fact being automatically coded. One official at the State Department recently offered some information but cautioned: ''I'd rather give this to you verbally, they trace the copiers here.'' At the Interior Department, a middle-level official agreed to pass along a copy of a document the other day, but said: ''I'll have to take it downstairs to another section to have it copied before I give it to you.''  At Xerox Corporation headquarters in Stamford, Conn., a spokesman was forthright but unable to give a definitive answer. ''No, our machines don't come with identifying dots,'' said James R. Lamb, the director of public relations. ''But, of course, there is nothing to prevent the Government or anyone else from placing a transparent overlay on the glass plates of their machines. That would provide a kind of identification.''  So the mystery remains.  Illustrations: drawing 
