19820504
AIKEN, S.C. FOR almost three decades, the huge Savannah River Plant, scattered over 300 acres of gently rolling pine— covered land at the edge of the Atlantic coastal plain, has been producing plutonium and tritium for nuclear warheads. Now it is here that scientists are preparing to take the first momentous step in this country toward permanent disposal of the enormous quantities of radioactive waste generated.  The Energy Department, which owns the plant, and E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, which operates it, got sidetracked for years on a controversial plan to pump the noxious liquids far below ground into caverns cut into the bedrock. But after critics complained that the wastes might leak into the Tuscaloosa aquifer, a major source of drinking water for the Southeast, that approach was abandoned. Now the scientists are concentrating on an entirely different solution: solidification of the wastes in a leak-resistant glassy form held in stainless steel containers, for eventual burial in a safer location at least 2,000 feet underground.  Last week the Senate passed a bill that would expedite the Government's search for a final burial site and would limit the ability of states to block a repository within their borders. That is the second step in a program whose first phase - solidification of the wastes - is starting here.  The emphasis on solidification is a relatively new wrinkle in the search for safe disposal methods. For the last two decades, attention has focused primarily on finding safe geologic sites where the wastes can be buried and forgotten. But as the search for such sites has repeatedly stumbled on technical difficulties and political opposition, scientists have turned greater attention to the waste package itself as the first line of protection.  The military wastes currently stored at Savannah River consist of 25 million gallons of radioactive sludge and liquid and salts, held in giant carbon steel tanks buried just beneath the ground. These tanks have a lifetime measured in decades, and while they are being replaced as they wear out and could presumably be replaced indefinitely, no one considers them a final repository for radioactive wastes that can remain dangerous for thousands and thousands of years.  Thus the Savannah River Plant is coordinating a search by laboratories around the nation for materials in which to immobilize the wastes. An original list of 17 substances that might be used for that purpose has been progressively narrowed down to two finalists: borosilicate glass and a crystalline ceramic, both of which are deemed relatively impervious to damage and leakage.  Virtually all scientists and officials interviewed on a visit here last week believe that borosilicate glass should win hands down. A final choice is to be made by October 1983, but many officials expect the winner to be announced within months.  If the Federal Government decides to go with glass, as now seems likely, the decision will be subject to attack from two directions. Some critics contend that glass is not impregnable enough and that even stronger ceramics, which actually incorporate the wastes into their molecular structure, should be used. Others argue that glass is ''overkill'' and that cement would do the job nicely.  Whatever waste form is chosen, current plans call for starting construction of a solidification plant at Savannah River in January 1984. The plant will be a milestone, the first major facility in this country to prepare radioactive wastes for permanent disposal. The same solidification techniques may also be used to immobilize the wastes at other military installations and may one day be used for liquid wastes generated from commercial power reactors, if a decision is made to ''reprocess'' the spent fuel rods from commercial power reactors. The French already have a glass solidification plant operating, and other countries appear headed in the same direction.  The Energy Department currently proposes to protect the biosphere from contact with the wastes through a system of multiple barriers. Under the proposal, the wastes would be combined with molten glass or another material and hardened into a solid form resistant to leakage. The solid would be contained in a corrosion-resistant stainless steel canister, which would be blanketed with an ''overpack'' of absorbent materials. The whole package would then be buried in an underground cavern cut into rock that had remained intact for long spans of geologic time.  The scientists here express confidence that these multiple barriers can meet the official goal of preventing any escape of radioactive material for at least a thousand years, by which time the biologically dangerous isotopes of cesium and strontium will have decayed away. Thereafter, they are confident they can keep any releases of the long-lived uranium and plutonium isotopes to the negligible levels required by the Government.  Although public opinion remains skeptical, Terry Lash, for many years the nuclear waste expert for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a leading environmental group, agrees that the solidified wastes can be buried safely, provided the job is done carefully. ''If they're willing to put in a lot of effort, it's hard to imagine how the wastes could get out, unless they're unusually unlucky or stupid in selecting a repository.'' Mr. Lash said. ''The biggest danger is getting the wastes out of the tanks and into the solidification facility.'' 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
