19890217
''IT made me a Dewar's drinker,'' Jerry Orbach said yesterday, recalling his appearance 20 years ago as a young actor in the first Dewar's Profile for White Label Scotch. ''Any publicity is good when they spell your name right.''  Mr. Orbach was the first of 85 young men and women to appear in the ad, now one of the longest-running campaigns in the United States and a triumph for its creator, Leo Burnett U.S.A., the Chicago-based agency.  As it did for Mr. Orbach, the ad has persuaded many people to drink White Label. ''It helped the success of the brand in a soft market for distilled spirits,'' said Henry Yaris, United States business manager for Dewar's, ''and Dewar's became the leading brand of Scotch in the country.''  Dewar's, owned by Guinness P.L.C., is imported and marketed by a Guinness unit, the Schenley Affiliated Brands Corporation, based in Dallas. That makes Texas the site for Schenley's plans to mark the 20th anniversary of the profile.  Mr. Orbach and several others who have appeared in the ad will gather later this month at an awards ceremony for 50 Texas ''do-ers.'' A second ceremony will be held next month, built around the introduction of the new profile subject, a Texan, identity still undisclosed.  The challenge for the Burnett agency two decades ago was to position Dewar's among educated and sophisticated young adults. The late Gene Kolkey, a Burnett executive, is credited with the idea of finding young achievers not yet nationally known with copy that gave their age, hometown, profession, hobby, last book read, latest accomplishment, ''why I do what I do,'' a quote, a brief profile and his or her Scotch - always Dewar's White Label.  The real people in the ads come from the arts, fashion, journalism and other recognizable categories. But Dewar's also reaches into obscure areas to keep it interesting; it has used a bobsled racer, a harpsichord builder and a white-water rafting guide, for example.  The Burnett agency receives a stream of letters from would-be achievers who think they would be ideal for the ads.  All of them are considered and some are chosen, said David W. Selby, a Burnett vice president. Other candidates are sought out, ''but they all must be Dewar's drinkers,'' he said.  Those appearing in the ads do so for no fee. The cachet is enough for the ambitious young men and women.  Those profiled become celebrities of a sort. People who have lent their names to the Scotch include the author Lisa Birnbaum and the artist LeRoy Neiman. The last three to appear have been Henry Threadgill, a jazz musician; Jeremiah Tower, a restaurateur, and Peter Norton, head of a small computer company that bears his name.  ''I'm going to tell people in Texas next week that there are a lot of weird people out there, and being in the ad enables you to meet them,'' said Raisa Scriabine Smith, a Washington consultant who appeared in 1979. ''You get a lot of strange phone calls, but it was a delightful experience, and I do drink Dewar's.''  Dewar's is expanding the ads regionally as well as internationally, using achieving Spaniards in Spain and ambitious Australians in Australia.  The company also uses a more traditional Burnett ad campaign in the United States to complement the profiles. The ads ''speak of Scotland, with warm feelings about the Scottish heritage of the brand,'' Mr. Yaris said. ''They are more traditional, more conservative in their outlook on life. The two campaigns have given us a great deal of credibility with the Scotch whisky consumer.''  In the United States, the distilled spirits market is a tough one. ''It's soft these days because of a change in life styles,'' Mr. Yaris said. ''It's now become a fight for market shares. Previously, we were all moving upward, and we didn't worry about the competition. Now we're all going out there trying to do more and more.''  Perhaps Mr. Orbach's activity yesterday reflects a change in life style. He was reached at a gym instead of lingering at lunch over Scotch whisky. But he was ready with a Dewar's joke about Dean Martin: ''One night Sinatra and Dean passed a Dewar's factory all lit up and going full blast. Sinatra said, 'You haven't drunk them out of business yet,' and Dean replied, 'No, but I've got them working nights.' '' 
