20071006
 Real Time: Seeking Truly Mobile Music; New Efforts Try to Make It Easy To Buy and Share Music Wirelessly Online edition  By Fry, Jason, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 7, 2007  In recent weeks we've heard Apple tout its new iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store. We've seen Microsoft show off improvements to its Zune music player, talk up the player's ability to share music, and unveil Zune Social, a new community site. Cellular-service providers such as Sprint Nextel, Verizon Wireless (a Verizon/Vodafone joint venture) and AT&T continue to sell songs over the air and experiment with various music-related offerings. And what about services that recommend and stream music, from Pandora to Rhapsody?  Sharing is tricky stuff -- music is at once highly social and intensely private. On the one hand we wear band t-shirts (at least for a while), join together with other like-minded fans for shows and proudly display our music collections in bookshelves (or at least we used to). On the other hand, as commuters cars or headphones mark the boundaries of our private musical worlds. One of the joys of digital music is its anonymity -- on iTunes, you don't have to suffer an indie clerk's scorn for buying the Pussycat Dolls. For a music fan, it's anxious business making a playlist for a party or a mixtape (to use an out-of-date analog term) for a friend. You're making the private public, with unknowable results.  perhaps such services could thrive as an on-the-go alternative: You'll flip over to your contacts list, but instead of calling your friend, you'll check out his latest playlist, tapping into a subscription service to do so. Like a song from that playlist? You'll bookmark it to download via your PC later, or pay a slight premium to download it over the air, ensuring you'll have it even if Wi-Fi isn't available. Boosted by sharing, subscription services will find their niche -- and the idea of not having millions of albums available on your MP3 player will seem as amazing as the idea that people ever headed to work with just a single album for company.   
