19810123
Dick Van Dyke packs along his family photographs, his collection of well-read Graham Greene paperbacks, his tape deck with his cassettes of Johann Sebastian Bach and his computerized chess set.  Gloria Vanderbilt sends her assistant, Nora Marley, ahead, so that when she arrives the Rigaud candle will be lighted and the hotel room well-scented, the beds will be outfitted with her own Porthault sheets, her clothes will be ironed and Bobby Short's taped piano music will be playing.  Laurence Olivier and his wife, Joan Plowright, are most at home with flowers in their room. And the CBS correspondent Morley Safer is so taken with the hotel rooms in which he has stayed that he duplicates them, in watercolors on drawing boards, during his stays.  Making the Temporary Livable  These public people travel a good deal, they are in hotels many times every year, often for prolonged stays, and in different ways, quite personal ways, most of them try to make their temporary homes a bit more permanent. They must live out of suitcases, often with limited wardrobes, away from families, and so often their tenuous connection with their permanent homes consists of personal oddments.  Donald O'Connor, currently in rehearsals for ''Bring Back Birdie,'' the sequel to ''Bye Bye Birdie,'' checked into the Wyndham Hotel on West 58th Street last week, for example, with the rubber Snoopy doll he never travels without, with his stereo player and tapes of 1950's ''liquid soothing music'' and pictures of his wife and children, ''which I put up to make it all just a bit familiar.''  ''The Snoopy?'' he said in an interview. ''Nothing special except to me. It's my good luck thing. It goes with me.'' Among Mr. O'Connor's neighbors at the Wyndham are Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy and Ben Gazzara. Recent guests were the Oliviers, Julie Harris, Peter Falk, and John Cassavetes and his wife, the actress Gena Rowlands. The reasons they and other actors prefer this littleknown New York hotel is simply because it is little known, highly private and family-operated. Like an English Inn  Run much like the individually owned inns and country hotels in England, the Wyndham is owned solely by John and Suzanne Mados, who live in their hotel and see personally to the decoration and upkeep of each of its 212 rooms. It is an unobtrusive place, just west of Fifth Avenue, overshadowed by the larger Plaza Hotel across the street and Park Lane next door, which is how Mr. and Mrs. Mados prefer it.  ''This is less a hotel to us than it is our home and when people come here we try as hard as we can to make it seem like home to them as well,'' says Mr. Mados. The Wyndham is a rarity in that, although it has a small restaurant, it has no room service. But in its suites it has kitchenettes, which is why Roger Mudd, NBC's chief Washington correspondent, stays there when he is in New York.  ''I began going there in 1974 and I bought myself a toaster oven because I was staying late and I'd usually find restaurants closed,'' Mr. Mudd said. ''So I'd buy some food and cook. John and Suzanne hold my oven for me whenever I go to New York.''  The theatrical agent Milton Goldman said that he had persuaded Laurence Olivier and Joan Plowright to go to the Wyndham and ''now they come back regularly.'' He also prevailed upon Ginger Rogers to stay at the Wyndham. And others who have returned regularly to the hotel include Sid Caesar, Stacy Keach, Sheldon Leonard, Valerine Perrine, Anthony Franciosa and Jane Seymour.  Says Mr. Mados, ''When we watch television we pay close attention to the credits, looking for our guests.'' All of the Fondas, Henry, Jane and Peter, have stayed at the Wyndham, and other guests have included Dolores Del Rio, Art Carney, Mel Ferrer, Steve Allen, Brian Keith, Tennessee Williams and Lena Horne. Tom Conti, the English actor who won a Tony Award last year for ''Whose Life Is It Anyway?'' is a Wyndham regular because, he says, ''The rooms are not at all like hotel rooms and the maids don't hassle you to make the beds or anything. Staying there is like living in a small inn, even though this is a large inn.''  Ginger Rogers stays regularly at the Wyndham and Mr. Mados keeps a carton in a corner of his office packed with her pineapple juice, chocolate bars, shortbread cookies, white vinegar, canned soups and Perrier. There is also a box of cosmetics that Mrs. Michael York would rather not cart back and forth from and to England; and three television recorders for ''an NBC executive who I think is getting a promotion,'' says Mr. Mados.  Making a hotel a home includes decorating each room individually so that no two rooms in the entire hotel are alike; using only a minimal amount of paint and instead finishing all walls with fabric, and outfitting the 24 suites on the upper floors with antique furniture, built-in armoires, shelves filled with collectibles and walls hung with paintings.  Their first celebrity guest back in 1966 was, Mr. Mados remembers, Eva Marie Saint. ''Why she came I'm not sure,'' says Mr. Mados, ''but she recommended Eddie Albert to us, and recommended Nannette Fabray, and then it was one person to the next.'' In came Richard Basehart, Barbara Bel Geddes, Martin Sheen, John Houseman and Diana Rigg.  The Wyndham, which operates at more than 90 percent of its capacity year round, according to Mr. Mados, has never published a brochure and prefers to keep itself as a more or less private sanctuary.  Which is why Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy stay at the Wyndham. Says Miss Tandy, ''Any time spent in a hotel is time spent with the end in sight. I've done concerts where you stay in chain motels and I don't like poky rooms. A hotel room can be like home if there are books and space and light. I ask little of a hotel, a pleasant atmosphere, a family feeling, smallness instead of bigness.''  Illustrations: photo of Jessica Tandy photo of Laurence Olivier and Joan Plowright photo of Donald O'Connor 
