19820102
Miles Davis's comeback to the New York concert stage last summer after a five-year absence aroused a number of complaints, not the least of which had to do with the shortness of his sets and the paucity of his solos. But at the Beacon Theater, where he fronted his latest quintet Thursday, the great trumpeter performed two generous and engrossing 45-minute sets in which he was a more than equal soloist with the other musicians.  Mr. Davis has declared his interest in reinvestigating the pre-1950 American ballad tradition, and he proved with an extended version of the classic Gershwin song from ''Porgy and Bess,'' ''My Man's Gone Now,'' perhaps in tribute to the late Bob Marley. Under Mr. Davis's direction, the song became a cool tone poem for jazz sextet, with the trumpet reiterating the chorus in elegiac four-bar fragments that spun off into carefully timed solos by the other instrumentalists.  Mr. Davis's band is far from the flashiest he's had, but it has grown into a tightly knit ensemble, whose strengths have more to do with textural nicety than with solo fireworks. The guitarist Mike Stern laid cool chordal groundwork for Mr. Davis's solos and in his own solos bolstered Mr. Davis's ideas with a distinctly trumpetlike timbre. The saxophonist Bill Evans, on the other hand, played it hot against Mr. Davis's cool, for rich but subtle emotional contrasts. The drummer Al Foster worked effectively in a restrained light-funk style, and in the second set moved comfortably into a Spanish rhythmic mode.  Moving at the center of these carefully detailed set pieces, Mr. Davis cut an eerie figure, creeping around the stage in obvious discomfort because of a recent hip dislocation. The difficulty in walking, however, didn't interfere with his trumpet playing. His stealthy, behind-the-beat phrasing, lean staccato notation and sputtering dry timbre, with only the occasional note drawn out, is one of the most singular and haunting sounds in all of contemporary music.  Illustrations: photo of Miles Davis 
