19810908
WASHINGTON, Pa.— The story of a legacy of bitterness and strife of an immigrant without formal education who built a fortune in real estate will soon grow a new chapter, to be written in Pennsylvania's highest court.  The battle, which has aroused sporadic public curiosity in Pennsylvania, is over the estate of Paul Ciaffoni, estimated at as much as $8 million. He began as a meat peddler and learned the intricacies of land dealing in this and surrounding states and accumulated the fortune over half a century.  The version of the Ciaffoni will that reached probate changed terms of earlier wills, disinherited a daughter and partly disinherited a grandson. Motion for a New Trial  The Pennsylvania Supreme Court is being asked to hear a motion for a new trial and thus to rule whether members of the family may continue, seven years after Paul Ciaffoni's death, to use the state courtrooms as a scene for legal fighting over his estate. The will was ruled valid in a lower court more than two years ago, but appeals have twice reached the threshhold of the United States Supreme Court, only to be refused a hearing.  The fight has pitted brothers against siste rs, mother against daughters and grandchildren against aunts and cousins. So far there have been no final victors, only victims, inc luding a Superior Court judge who, while he was in private practice 1 3 years ago, prepared a will for the Ciaffoni patriarch.  The judge, Richard DiSalle, said that the case had caused ''a lot of grief'' for him and his family. He has testified that the will as it was offered for probate after Mr. Ciaffoni's death in 1974 was a bona fide product of his office. As a result, he has been accused by those contesting the will of taking a role in a conspiracy for which he says he could have had no possible motive.  Robert Ciaffoni, a son, has led a seven-year effort to prove that the will was fraudulently altered after it was signed, charging in appeals that excessive deference had been shown by fellow judges to Judge DiSalle as a witness to the authenticity of the will.  None of the family has pleaded poverty, and while the will is tied up, Mrs. Ciaffoni has property and income because of joint titles held at the time of her husband's death, she said. But she and her son spoke feelingly of the toll of family strife.  Meanwhile, as legal costs erode potential benefits, the estate remains under the jurisdiction of a lower court. Creation of the estate began some years after Paul Ciaffoni arrived in this country at the age of 16 from Italy. On May 13, 1916, when he was married at 21, he and his bride, Concetta, were too poor to buy a bed. They were so poor, Mrs. Ciaffoni says now, that their meals sometimes consisted mostly of dandelions.  After working as a miner, Mr. Ciaffoni bought a horse and wagon and began to buy pigs and calves for slaughter, Mrs. Ciaffoni, who is now 82, sold the meat from door to door. Soon, she said, they opened a grocery store. Eventually, they had seven children.  Then Mr. Ciaffoni bought a farm, and then began the accumulation of land and other holdings that would spread over several states. He Gained Expertise  ''He was a taciturn man,'' Mr. DiSalle said. ''I guess he had no formal eduction.'' But he added that by the time Mr. Ciaffoni began to visit the DiSalle law office in the early 1960's, Mr. Ciaffoni ''probably knew as much'' about real estate, mortgages and estate sales as anyone around.  In 1967, the judge has testified, Mr. Ciaffoni brought him a 1965 will to use as a guide, though he wanted its provisions changed. Mr. DiSalle said he then prepared the first of two wills he worked on for Mr. Ciaffoni before 1969, the year Mr. DiSalle was elected a judge and gave up private practice. A will dated May 10, 1968, is the focus of the family dispute.  The principals on one side, supporting the will, are four daughters, including Elizabeth Cowden, the youngest of the seven children.  On the other side, contesting the will, are Robert Ciaffoni and his mother, who were named executors along with Mrs. Cowden, and the rest of the children, who are a brother and the oldest sister, Margaret Soviero.  The attack has become a primary occupation of Robert Ciaffoni, despite two facts: He was required by one judge to promise to support the will before he could be approved as an executor; the provisions of the will for him are undiminished from an earlier will that he does not question. His motive, he said, is ''truth and justice.''  Several grandchildren, including the oldest, Paul A. Ciaffoni 2d, have also taken sides. Among the issue are language leaving Mrs. Soviero without an inheritance and switching several farms, bequeathed in the 1965 will to Paul Ciaffoni 2d, to Mrs. Cowden. Mr. Ciaffoni has long lived on one of the disputed farms.  The contestants have asserted that the elder Ciaffoni would never have disinherited one of his children and that he had long said that the switched land, including the family's home farm, was destined for his oldest grandson.  Other issues focus on findings of specialists hired to give their opinions on the authenticity of the document. Two experts on documents were hired by the contestants but not called to testify. They were later asked by the court for their opinions.  One of them, Ordway Hilton, noted in his report that one page was written on paper with a different watermark from the rest of the seven-page will, but he concluded: ''It is my opinion that the will has not been tampered with in any way.'' He Cites Questions of Client  Paul A. Osborn, whose report was never entered into evidence, said in a telephone interview that though he had found the signature to be genuine, there were other questions asked by his client, Robert Ciaffoni, ''that could not be resolved, at least from the materials I was given.'' He added, however: ''I felt t her e was no positive evidence that any alleged alterations were do ne subsequent to the execution of the document.''  Still another expert, from the Postal Service's crime laboratory, asked to make, he said, ''a limited survey and review.'' ''Within the reservations detailed in the court order,'' this expert said, his examination did not reveal ''any significant evidence'' tending to challenge their authenticity.  But, like Mr. Hilton, he noted the existence of a page of differing paper, and he said that its typing appeared to have been ''produced through the use of a newer or different typewriter ribbon.''  In 1979, a lower court upheld the will and rejected subsequent protests. In 1980, the state Supreme Court twice rejected appeals. In an appeal to the United States Supreme Court, Robert Ciaffoni argued that in 1980, after losing an election, Mr. DiSalle had been employed by the court as a research consultant to one of its justices and was thus in ''a favored position'' when ''his work product'' was an issue, though records show that that judge had taken no part in the Ciaffoni case.  One of the state justices dissented, saying the lower court had erred in excluding testimony on the style of Mr. DiSalle's office shown in comparison wills.  In briefs filed the last week in August, Robert Ciaffoni is seeking still another hearing. And if he loses that, he said, he intends to start again, at the bottom of the Federal system, with an appeal to a District Court. 
