19810518
ATLANTIC CITY, May 17— Eddie Mustafa Muhammad, the World Boxing Association light-heavyweight champion, added weight to move up to the heavyweight division. But from the way he looked today, losing a dull 10-round split decision in a nontitle bout to Renaldo (Mr.) Snipes, and having his trunks split in the seventh round, maybe he should go on a diet.  Mustafa Muhammad's body had a pear-shaped tone. He weighed 201 3/4 pounds, 26 3/4 pounds over the light-heavyweight limit, and was outclassed by a relatively inexperienced, although undefeated, fighter. Mustafa Muhammad said he didn't want to make any excuses, but in the same sentence added, ''I threw out my back eight days ago'' and needed hospital care in Las Vegas, Nev.  A Legitimate Heavyweight  Snipes, who was bruised in a car accident three days ago, is a legitimate heavyweight at 6 feet 3 inches, 215 pounds, but he was the one who fought like a smaller man today, relying on his foot speed and jab to score the few points that seemed worth awarding.  Mustafa Muhammad thought he won every round, he said, ''because how can you win a fight running?'' But even the one judge whose scorecard was in Mustafa Muhammad's favor, Paul Cavaliere, said he thought Snipes won.  Cavaliere mistakenly marked his card five rounds for Mustafa Muhammad, three for Snipes and two even, and Robert Lee, the deputy commissioner of the New Jersey State Athletic Commission, refused to allow Cavaliere to change it.  Referee Vincent Rainone, who took away the third round from the champion for hitting on a break, scored seven rounds for Snipes, two for Mustafa Muhammad and one even. Judge William Kostrub had it 9-1 for Snipes, who was gaining his 21st straight victory as a pro. Michael Spinks Is Next Foe  Mustafa Muhammad's next fight will be a light-heavyweight title defense against Michael Spinks, the undefeated No. 1 contender, Sam Glass, the promoter, announced today. The time and place have not been determined.  Spinks, at ringside, said he was ''a little disappointed'' with Mustafa Muhammad's performance. ''He looked bad, sloppy,'' said Spinks. Snipes even questioned Mustafa Muhammad's strategy. ''If I were him, I'd have come in at the weight I was at my best at,'' he said. ''But when he came in at 201, we decided to outbox him because we knew we would be faster than him.''  ''If he had come in at 185 pounds, I'd have fought him different,'' Snipes added. ''I'd have overpowered him.'' Mustafa Muhammad was never at his best today. At his best, he is an able counterpuncher. He seemed unable or unwilling to get close to Snipes, and even when he did, in the third round, it may have lost the fight. Treated With Respect  For two rounds, Snipes treated Mustafa Muhammad with the respect afforded a champion. But in the third, Mustafa Muhammad backed up the 24-year-old Yonkers fighter on the ropes and hit him with a five-punch combination. Snipes easily withstood it.  ''The punches felt like a middleweight punching me,'' said Snipes. Snipes, on the other hand, threw jabs and occasional overhand rights to keep Mustafa Muhammad at bay. After the fourth round, when it was becoming apparent that the fight was slipping away, Mustafa Muhammad was beseeched by his friend, Matthew Saad Muhammad, the World Boxing Council light-heavyweight champion.  ''The community's watching,'' Saad Muhammad told his Muslim brother. ''There are a lot of things on the line, like a unification title fight. You've got to be more aggressive.'' Snipes Shouts at Rival  Between the fifth and sixth rounds, Snipes was feeling cocky enough to raise himself halfway off his stool and shout at Mustafa Muhammad across the ring: ''You ain't gonna win a round.''  The only time Snipes appeared in trouble was early in the seventh round when he tripped over a camera on the ring apron and twisted an ankle. Mustafa Muhammad said later, ''The man wanted to quit, I thought he was going to pull a Roberto Duran on me.''  Instead, shortly afterward, Snipes landed his best punch of the fight - a looping right hand - and Mustafa Muhammad, briefly stunned, retreated to the ropes where Snipes followed with another wildly arcing right and an uppercut. But Snipes, who may next fight Gerrie Coetzee of South Africa, was unable to take advantage of the opportunity. 
