19860817
New York State mental health officials said last week they were preparing to reduce by a third the number of patients in the state's 22 psychiatric hospitals over the next 10 years.  The impending discharge of thousands of patients represents a renewal of the state's bitterly contested policy of releasing patients from large institutions for treatment in their communities.  That policy, begun 25 years ago, resulted in a reduction of patients in state hospitals from 93,000 to the current level of 20,000. Critics say it also added thousands of former mental patients to the ranks of the homeless, particularly in New York City.  State mental health officials said that before the new policy was implemented, provisions would be made for community-based follow-up care and residential housing. Shift to Local Services  The new policy coincides with an order by Governor Cuomo on Wednesday directing the State Office of Mental Health to reduce overcrowding in state mental hospitals and in psychiatric units in New York City's municipal hospitals.  A major goal of the planned discharges is to shift mental health services from large state hospitals to community-based public and private hospitals, mental health agencies and residential treatment centers. Such a shift was supported by Mr. Cuomo two years ago when he recommended a complete restructuring of the state's mental health system.  Another goal, however, is the discharge of those patients who are not covered by Federal Medicaid health funds for the poor because they are confined to a state mental hospital. Their shift to public and private general hospitals and to local outpatient treatment centers would qualify them for Medicaid and monthly Federal disability payments under the Social Security program.  The objective would be to place as many patients as possible into Federally funded programs, easing the strain on the state's $1.54 billion mental health budget. Patients 21 to 65 Years Old  The renewed discharges would mostly affect patients from 21 to 65 years of age, a category of state mental hospital patients not covered by Medicaid. This would ultimately leave state hospitals largely populated by either very young or very old patients - the only ones currently eligible for Medicaid coverage.  City mental health officials said they supported providing psychiatric care in the least restrictive and least costly community-based settings. But they said they were apprehensive that the new policy would inundate New York with former mental patients and aggravate a problem that Mayor Koch says has given the city a negative image and that seems to get worse every year.  Martin Begun, chairman of the New York City Mental Health Board, an advisory agency for the city, said the new state policy was ''frightening,'' given the growing numbers of the homeless.  Mr. Begun said that the state's earlier policy of deinstitutionalization also had included promises of community-based care that were never realized. So he questioned whether a renewed policy would have the same result. 'Reconfiguration of Services'  ''It's human nature in politics to cut a program before funding a substitute,'' Mr. Begun said. ''My fear is that the state will cut and will not substitute, either.''  Dr. Luis Marcos, head of mental health services for the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, which operates the municipal hospitals, said he was ''very concerned'' by the new state policy, given that most officials think the earlier policy has failed.  ''I cannot support any shift to community-based treatment that is done at the expense of inpatient care,'' Dr. Marcos said.  However, Bruce E. Feig, deputy commissioner of the State Office of Mental Health, insisted that the mistakes of the past would not be repeated.  In fact, Mr. Feig declined to refer to the new discharges as ''deinstitutionalization,'' and he said he did not want the new policy ''painted with an old brush.''  ''We prefer to call it a reconfiguration of services,'' he said.  In fact, he said, at the end of the 10-year plan, the state would have a total of 37,000 psychiatric beds in state, private and public hospitals and in community residences - an increase, he said, of 6,600 over current levels. Effects Disputed  Mr. Feig said, moreover, that the current total of 3,500 patients in the five state hospitals in the city would not be reduced over the 10-year period. He said the discharges would be centered in the 17 state hospitals in other parts of the state.  But Dr. Marcos contended that almost 1,000 patients from municipal hospitals and emergency rooms have been sent to state hospitals in Suffolk, Rockland and Putnam Counties and that any cuts in service in those hospitals would have a negative impact on the city's efforts to reduce overcrowding.  Ultimately, Mr. Feig said the ''reconfigured'' system would have the capacity to treat 470,000 patients outside and inside hospitals statewide, or 120,000 more than the current capacity of 350,000.  Mr. Feig said the shift could be accomplished without increasing state funds because community-based treatment was less costly than hospital care and because the shift was aimed at capturing more Federal mental health funds.  Already, he said, the shift has seen state aid to local mental health programs increase to $284 million from $241 million. 
