19811108
Just nine months ago Kevin Cogan thought about quitting auto racing. But the 25-year-old driver will instead replace Bobby Unser next season in Roger Penske's Indy car, Norton Spirit.  The retirement almost came last March when Cogan, with friends and relatives from nearby Redondo Beach, Calif., looking on, failed by a fraction of a second to qualify his rented Formula One car for the United States Grand Prix West at Long Beach, Calif.  ''I was going backwards, just scraping up rides,'' Cogan said recently. ''I thought, 'What am I bothering with this for?' '' The year before, he had suffered through a season driving an old Formula One car in an English national series. The old hulk finished just one race. In 1979, he had dominated the North American Formula Atlantic series for most of the season and needed to capture only one of the last four races to win the title. His car broke down in the next three.Then, leading the last race handily, his brakes failed going into a hairpin turn. Cogan sailed through three rows of catch fencing and lost hope for the championship.  After his problems at Long Beach in March, Cogan might have given up racing and concentrated his efforts on his home construction business. ''I was definitely heading for a low point in my career,'' he said.  Instead Cogan, who had only driven on two oval track races in his life, began looking into the possibility of driving Indy cars. He was encouraged by Parnelli Jones, the 1963 Indianapolis 500 winner and a friend of the Cogan family. Jones introduced Cogan to Jerry O'Connell, whose driver, Tom Sneva, had left the team over the winter.  O'Connell agreed to field a car for Cogan at Indianapolis, and Jones contributed $50,000 toward the team's expenses for the race. During the month of May, Cogan made steady if unspectacular progress and qualified 12th, one of 10 rookies in the race.  The 500-mile event tested all of Cogan's skills and endurance. After two laps he moved up to eighth, but a wheel came loose and he dropped to last place after a pit stop. He passed most of the field before the problem recurred midway through the race. Once again, Cogan fell to the end of the line after hobbling around the track on three wheels.  Cogan again had his car, which wasn't all that stable even on all its tires, in fourth place when the checkered flag fell, just as another wheel was working its way loose.  He lost the Indianapolis rookie of the year award to Josela Garza, but Cogan's second place two weeks later at Milwaukee attracted the attention of several top team owners. Engine failures and mishaps on the track accounted for the rest of the season, but when Bobby Unser decided that he wished to cut back on his racing schedule, Penske hired Cogan to drive alongside Rick Mears, a former Indy winner who captured his second national driving championship this year.  ''I'm looking forward to working with Roger Penske,'' said Cogan. ''He's probably the most committed car owner there is.'' Cogan, who tested one of the team cars last Thursday at Phoenix, still says he thinks about Grand Prix racing, but adds, ''If I ran with Penske for the next 10 years, that would be fine.'' 
