19850217
One morning when she was 14 years old, Amy Eilberg came down to breakfast and announced to her family that she would not eat because the food was not kosher. Her parents recognized her sincerity, were eventually convinced of her position and before long made the house kosher.  Last week, 16 years after that incident, Miss Eilberg was introduced at the Jewish Theological Seminary as the first woman who will officially serve as a Conservative rabbi in the century-long history of the movement.  The action was made possible by a vote of the governing body of Conservative Judaism, the Rabbinical Assembly, that enabled Miss Eilberg and women who graduate from the seminary in the future to be Conservative rabbis upon their ordination. Miss Eilberg will be ordained in May.  Classmates at the seminary said Miss Eilberg's quest for the rabbinate - much like her campaign to make the Eilberg home kosher - demonstrated her tenacity, conviction and sincerity.  A Serendipitous First  ''I've been waiting for this day for 10 years,'' the 30-year-old Miss Eilberg said at a news conference Thursday at the seminary, which is at Broadway and 122d Street. ''I feel very excited, very proud - not just for myself but for all women.'' The fact that she was first, she added, was merely ''serendipitous.''  ''This is a great day for American Judaism and for American Jewish women,'' she said. ''As of today, Jewish women need never again feel that their gender is a barrier to their full participation in Jewish life. They need never again doubt the commitment of the Conservative movement to complete equality for women.''  Miss Eilberg's acceptance was applauded by most Conservative rabbis, as well as by the leaders of the more liberal Reform wing of Judaism, which has been ordaining women for more than a decade.  But the admission of a Conservative woman to the ranks of the rabbinate drew an angry response from a group within the movement, the Union for Traditional Conservative Judaism, and from the Orthodox branch. Both groups warned that the validity of certain religious ceremonies performed by the women, such as marriages and conversions, would be open to question.  Full Ritual Privileges  Miss Eilberg said that she intended to exercise her full ritual privileges and obligations as a rabbi. She regularly dons the prayer shawl and phylacteries, leather boxes that contain Scripture, which have traditionally been worn only by Jewish men.  She refrains, however, from wearing a yarmulke over her shoulder-length brown hair because, she explained, the skull cap was a custom developed specifically among men. Some other female rabbis and rabbinical students, however, have accepted the custom of wearing the yarmulke.  Miss Eilberg and her husband, Dr. Howard Schwartz, live in Bloomington, Ind., not far from Indiana University, where Dr. Schwartz is a professor of religious studies. After her ordination in May, Miss Eilberg hopes to find a position in southern Indiana either as a congregational rabbi or a hospital chaplain.  While she intends to serve the Jewish community at large, Miss Eilberg said the position of women in Jewish life was of particular concern to her. The perspectives of Jewish women and their special contributions have for too long been ignored, she said.  Miss Eilberg, who grew up in Philadelphia, said that she was inspired to pursue a career in public service by the example set by her father, Joshua Eilberg, a former Democratic Representative from Pennsylvania, and by her mother, Gladys, a social worker. While the family was not ritually observant until the daughter prodded them into action 16 years ago, she said that the Eilbergs have long been involved in Jewish communal affairs.  Learned About Judaism  As a teen-ager, Miss Eilberg learned more about Judaism through the activities of the United Synagogue Youth, the national youth program of the Conservative movement. She graduated from Brandeis University in 1976 and then went to the Jewish Theological Seminary to study Talmud.  At that time, women were admitted to the seminary as candidates for all degrees except rabbinical ordination. Miss Eilberg earned a master's degree from the seminary in 1978 and a second master's from the Smith College School for Social Work in 1984.  Last September, after the seminary faculty voted to begin admitting women into the rabbinical program, Miss Eilberg returned to the seminary. She was able to complete her requirements for ordination in only one year because she had earlier completed all her course requirements for a doctorate and spent a year studying in Israel.  At the news conference Thursday, Miss Eilberg was asked to speculate when she would have become a rabbi had she been a man. ''Probably 1980,'' she said. But she didn't seem to mind the five-year delay. ''The long vigil is over,'' she said, ''and the wait was fully justified.''  Photo of Amy Eilberg 
