19971211
 Greenspan's Dilemma   By By Claudia Rosett, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 12, 1997  Confused about the manic swings of today's global economy? You should be. Over the past 15 years or so, the mix of advancing technology and more open markets has wrought a revolution in world finance, trade and production. Even for experts supposed to be guiding us through all this, the complexities quickly turn baffling. Just ask Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, whose job is to manage the U.S. money supply, and whose single most illuminating remark in recent times may well have been that, "in the current state of our knowledge, money demand has become too difficult to predict."  So who, or what, is keeping us all safe? If there is one man most in charge of the course the world's economy now steers, it is arguably Mr. Greenspan. Whether or not he knows how to predict the demand for money, he is at least the single best-placed person in the world to influence supply. Standing athwart the dollar, Mr. Greenspan's mission as head of the Fed is to manage the U.S. money supply -- via open market sales and purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds -- so as to maximize the long-run sustainable growth of the U.S. economy. The core of that task involves providing for a predictable, and preferably steady, value of the world's single most vital financial instrument, the dollar.  And so it's the world, not just the U.S., that will be looking anxiously to Mr. Greenspan this Tuesday, when he next chairs a meeting of the Fed's Open Market Committee -- to debate the appropriate price, or interest rate, for the dollar. The goal of providing a stable dollar has become increasingly important not just to the U.S. economy, but to world commerce -- which, like any market, craves certainty about the rules of the game. Businessmen everywhere seek a stable currency in which to get their work done. As the world's reserve currency, the dollar serves as the vital store of value abroad and the main medium for loans and deals across borders. So it would be some comfort to think that Mr. Greenspan knows just what he's doing.   
