19820720
When he first arrived in Washington 25 years ago, Kenneth Willard Dam was fresh out of the University of Chicago Law School and still just a few years away from the Kansas farm where he grew up.  ''There was still a little bit of the farm boy about him,'' said Norman Dorsen, recalling the young lawyer he first got to know in 1957 when they both were clerks at the United States Supreme Court.  ''He was not notably unsophisticated, but he viewed the world from a very solid middle American perspective,'' said Mr. Dorsen, acknowledging that the man he knew in 1957 was a far cry from the cultured, sophisticated man who has been named Deputy Secretary of State.  According to Mr. Dorsen, the president of the American Civil Liberties Union and a law professor at New York University, Mr. Dam's experience as a law professor, university official, author, world traveler and international economic expert has left little of the farm boy in him.  Lured Back to Chicago  ''He lost it pretty fast,'' Mr. Dorsen said yesterday, recalling that after a year in Washington Mr. Dam joined the Wall Street law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore.  Mr. Dam, who enjoyed the cultural, social and other offerings of New York City, might have had a distinguished career in private practice if he had not caught the eye of his old law school dean, Edward H. Levi.  In 1960, Mr. Levi, who later became Attorney General, lured his former student back to the University of Chicago as a temporary replacement for Nicholas deB. Katzenbach, who was joining the Justice Department. What started out as a six-month appointment became a career for Mr. Dam, who, with time out for Government service, remained at the university until now.  Mr. Dam, who has won praise for his contributions to the university both as a law professor and, for the last two years, as provost, has also benefited from the association.  It was there, shortly after his appointment, that he met a graduate student in English, Marcia Wachs, whom he married on June 9, 1962. Link With Shultz  Describing her husband yesterday as ''a gentle person, a kind person, a brilliant person, a generous person and a noble person,'' Mrs. Dam said she had been attracted to him because he was ''very handsome.''  ''He's always wanted to be a Renaissance man,'' Mrs. Dam said, recalling that when they were first married her husband had expressed the desire that they both ''master three or four languages and then explore the world together.''  ''We really did that,'' she said, citing summers spent in West Germany, France, Spain and Belgium. It was also at the University of Chicago that Mr. Dam's work bridging the fields of economics and law came to the attention of a professor of industrial relations who later became dean of the university's graduate school of business.  This was George P. Shultz. After Mr. Shultz became director of the Office of Management and Budget, he took Mr. Dam to Washington in the early 1970's.  After Mr. Dam returned to the University of Chicago, he and Mr. Shultz wrote a book describing Mr. Schultz's six years of Government service, ''Economic Policy Beyond the Headlines.'' It was published in 1977 and its recent paperback edition has become required reading in Washington. His Latest Book  Mr. Dam, who did much of the writing in that joint effort, may have another good seller in ''The Rules of the Game: Reform and Evolution in the International Monetary System,'' according to Andreas F. Lowenfeld, a law professor at New York University. It is being published by the University of Chicago Press.  On the basis of Mr. Dam's previous scholarly works, Mr. Lowenfeld said he expected the new work to be sound. ''He's an extraordinarily fine scholar,'' Mr. Lowenfeld said, describing Mr. Dam as ''the smartest'' of only ''five people in the legal community'' who have a firm understanding of the international economy.  Mr. Lowenfeld, commenting that Mr. Dam was a true son of the socalled University of Chicago school of economics and generally opposed ''regulation or other distortion'' of the market, predicted that there would be special interest in Mr. Dam's 1970 work on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, ''The GATT: Law and International Economic Organization.''  In it, he noted, Mr. Dam praised the agreement but criticized the European Common Market's insistence on special protections, especially in agriculture.  Mr. Dam was born on Aug. 10, 1932, in Marysville, Kan., where his father was a prosperous grain farmer who branched out into raising chickens. His parents, Oliver W. Dam and the former Ida L. Hueppelsheuser, still live in Marysville. He has one brother, Sylves, 12 years older, a reired John Deere executive who lives in Arizona.  Speaking of their two children, Mrs. Dam says her husband, an amateur pianist, sometimes plays duets with 11-year-old Eliot, a saxophone player, but rarely with 4-year-old Charlotte, who plays ''nothing but the drums.''  Illustrations: photo of Kenneth Willard Dam (page A1) 
