20010913
 Are You Ready To Travel? --- Our Q&A for Concerned Fliers: When to Get to the Airport, What to Do With E-Tickets [1]  By By Michelle Higgins and Rafer Guzman, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 14, 2001  A: Maybe, if you act fast. US Airways say it's reaccommodating passengers whose flights were "immediately affected" by the shutdown, but refunds will be given on a case-by-case basis. Delta says customers who have tickets for travel through Monday can change or cancel their plans with no penalties or fees; if you postpone your flight, you must travel within 60 days. Continental Airlines says travelers confirmed on flights through Tuesday can rebook up to one year from the date of "ticket issuance" without penalty or change fee. United will allow customers traveling during the next two weeks or so to re-book without charge. And Southwest Airlines says it will give passengers full refunds on any ticket, regardless of the travel date.  To help travelers going one way, both Avis and Budget have dropped all extra one-way charges and frozen rental rates. Chris McGinnis of Travelskills.com recommends rental carpooling -- in other words, ask the agent, or other customers, if anybody is going your way and wants to share the trip. And, of course, trains and buses are also another option: Greyhound says passenger traffic doubled in Chicago, Atlanta and St. Louis this week, while Amtrak sales are up about 60% on trains out of Washington. Amtrak has been honoring plane tickets on its trains for passengers with paper tickets or ticket stubs for the next few days. (However, they will not honor e-tickets and the train must go to the same general area as the original flight destination.)  A: Cruise companies from Holland America Line to Disney Cruise Line are already enforcing tighter security measures, such as limiting hand-carried bags, searching bags upon embarkation and banning non-passengers at ports. And plans have been disrupted for many travelers now out to sea or scheduled to board this week. Due to air-travel delays, the sailing of Princess Cruise Lines' newest ship, the Golden Princess, will be postponed for at least 36 hours. And for the next few days, Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises to Bermuda will depart from Philadelphia instead of New York City.   
