19810907
ATLANTA, Sept. 6— Steve Bartkowski threw three touchdown passes and Kenny Johnson recovered a fumble and ran 35 yards for another score today as the Atlanta Falcons posted a 27-0 victory over the New Orleans Saints in a National Conference game.  The loss spoiled the coaching debut of Bum Phillips, hired by the Saints last year after he was dismissed by the H ouston Oilers. George Rogers, the Heisman Trophy winner wh o was the No.1 choice inthe draft, gained 61 yards in 13 carries for the Saints, including a 25-yard run in the final quarter.  Bartkowski passed to Wallace Francis for two of the touchdowns, covering 10 and 19 yards, and connected with Alfred Jenkins on a 25-yard scoring toss early in the final quarter.  The shutout was the first for an Atlanta defense in 42 games, since a 14-0 victory over Detroit in 1978. The Falcons, defending champions of the Western Division, scored on their first possession with a 67-yard drive to set the tone of the game.  Bartkowski completed 16 of 25 passes for 154 yards and got solid help from both running backs, William Andrews, with 86 yards in 18 carries, and Lynn Cain, with 53 yards in 11 carries. Johnson's f umble return for a touchdown came in the third quarter after the Sai nts' Archie Manning had connected on a 7-yard pass to Rich Caster. Fulton Kuykendall forced the fumble, which Johnson scooped up on the 35 and returned for the score.  Manning completed 15 of 28 passes for 122 yards and had an apparent 40-yard touchdown pass to Wes Chandler nullified when Chandler went out of bounds and came back on the field to make the catch, thus becoming an ineligible receiver. Lions 24, 49ers 17  PONTIAC, Mich. (UPI) - Billy Sims, pro football's leading touchdown producer last season, drove a yard into the end zone with 18 seconds left to play to give the the Lions the victory.  San Francisco twice rallied to tie in the second half, once on a 1-yard run by Ricky Patton and the second time when Joe Montana threw a 21-yard pass to Fred Solomon with 7:30 left to play.  Detroit punted after three plays but San Francisco also had to punt and the Lions took possession at midfield to begin their winning drive with 4:09 left.  Leonard Thompson scooted 17 yards on a reverse, Sims carried for 2 yards and Dexter Bussey went 16 before turning things back over to Sims, who carried the ball the next five plays and swept right end for the score. Packers 16, Bears 9  CHICAGO (AP) - Gerry Ellis and Eddie Lee Ivery led a strong ground attack and each scored a touchdown to lead underdog Green Bay. The Bears' bid for a tying touchdown ended when Matt Suhey fumbled on the Green Bay goal line with 23 seconds to play.  Ellis carried 17 times for 94 yards and Ivery had 72 yards in 14 carries before leaving the game in the third quarter with a twisted left knee, the same knee on which he had surgery two years ago.  The Packers took the opening kickoff and marched 72 yards to a touchdown with Ivery smashing for 28 yards before going across from the 2. The snap from Charlie Ane, the center, was low on the extrapoint attempt, but Ray Stachowicz picked up the loose ball and threw a conversion pass to Rich Wingo for the 7-0 lead.  Chicago finally scored midway in the third quarter after an exchange of fumbles. The Bears took over on the Green Bay 39 following a fumble by Ellis and eight plays later Walter Payton raced round right end for 11 yards and a touchdown. Oilers 27, Rams 20  ANAHEIM, Calif. (UPI) - Willie Tullis ran back a kickoff 95 yards for a touchdown with 57 seconds left to play to pace Houston. The touchdown came right after the Rams tied the game at 20-20 on a 36-yard field goal by Frank Corral with 69 seconds to play. Tullis, a strong safety, caught the ball on the 5-yard line on the kickoff, broke round the left side and outsprinted the entire Los Angeles kickoff team down the left sideline into the end zone.  Illustrations: Photo of Billy Simms 
