19810109
Correction Appended The lawyer for a 21-year-old stagehand accused of pushing a violinist to her death from the roof of the Metropolitan Opera House last July 23 won the right to examine two key pieces of evidence yesterday.  One was a police artist's sketch of the suspect, Craig S. Crimmins, drawn from the recollections, under hypnosis, of a West Berlin ballerina whom prosecutors believe is the last person to have seen the 31-year-old violinist, Helen Hagnes, alive on the night of her death.  The ballerina, who has not been identified, assertedly saw Miss Hagnes in an elevator with a man shortly after 9:20 that night. The violinist's body was found hours later at the bottom of an airshaft.  ''The sketch doesn't look at all like Craig Crimmins,'' the defendant's lawyer, Lawrence Hochheiser, said from his office. To Get Copy of Tape  The lawyer obtained a copy of the sketch from District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau of Manhattan before a pretrial hearing at which the District Attorney also agreed to give the defense a copy of the audio tape recording of the interrogation, under hypnosis, of the ballerina who supplied the description of the suspect.  ''The sketch shows a dark, swarthy person with short hair, a lined forehead and a stubby growth of beard,'' Mr. Hochheiser said. ''Craig Crimmins is light-haired, has a fair complexion and is not nearly as heavy as the sketch would indicate.''  Miss Hagnes, the wife of Janis Mintiks, a sculptor, was a member of the orchestra playing for a performance of the Berlin Ballet at the opera house. She had left her chair in the pit during an intermission, saying that she was going backstage to discuss stage settings with Valery Panov, the dancer. Mr. Panov, however, was not in his dressing room but was in the audience at the time.  When the violinist's body was found, her hands and ankles had been bound and she had been gagged. An autopsy showed that she had been alive when thrown off the roof. Arrested at His Bronx Home  After weeks of questioning of members of the ballet company and the staff of the Metropolitan Opera House, Mr. Crimmins was arrested Aug. 29 outside his home in the Bronx, where he lived with his parents.  According to the police, he made a written statement - in which he admitted killing Miss Hagnes - and was then videotaped answering detectives' questions.  The defense has disavowed the confession, saying it was coerced, and is challenging both the ballerina's questioning under hypnosis and the validity of the sketch based on her recollections.  Mr. Hochheiser sought the tape recording of the ballerina's interrogation to buttress his contention that the description of the suspect was improperly suggested to her by her questioners.  The prosecution's contention, as presented at yesterday's hearing before Acting Justice Brenda Soloff in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, is that testimony under hypnosis is admissible, provided certain safeguards are met.  Mr. Morgenthau, when asked why the sketch had previously been withheld from the defense, declined to comment. Mr. Crimmins has been free under $50,000 cash bail since last month. Correction: January 12, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition Because of an editing error, an article Friday incorrectly described a sketch used by the police in investigating the murder of Helen Hagnes, a violinist, at the Metropolitan Opera House last July. The sketch was drawn on the basis of a witness's description of an unidentified man she had seen with the victim backstage. 
