19831117
GRETNA, La., Nov. 16— A jury of six men and six women found Ginny Foat not guilty of murder today, and tears, laughter, hugs and general chaos took over the courtroom.  ''Not guilty!'' ''Not guilty!'' the shouts rang up and down the courthouse corridor. Mrs. Foat was besieged by scores of her supporters, including some from California, where she was president of the state chapter of the National Organization for Women.  Mrs. Foat had been charged with clubbing an Argentine businessman to death with a tire iron in a New Orleans suburb in 1965, while robbing him of $1,400 in cash.  The chief witness against her in State District Court was her former husband, John Sidote, who was promised immunity from prosecution in return for his testimony. He confessed the New Orleans murder 12 years after it occurred and implicated Mrs. Foat.  Mrs. Foat, who described a life of beatings and harassment by Mr. Sidote, testified that she had gone to bed early on the night of the killing and that her husband had awakened her to tell her they had to leave because he had got into trouble over a card game.  After the verdict a juror, Anna Marie Whited, said: ''We discussed it for two hours, we covered all the angles and took one vote. There was no disagreement.''  Defense lawyers, some female jurors, Mrs. Foat's mother and Mrs. Foat took turns hugging each other and offering congratulations. ''God bless you, God bless you,'' one juror said to Mrs. Foat as several women jurors waited for her autograph. Some held out cloth napkins from lunch.  ''Thank you for your help,'' Mrs. Foat, 42 years old, said repeatedly to the dozens of people trying to get near her.  ''You'll have my prayers for the rest of your life,'' said Mrs. Foat's 72-year- old mother, Virginia Galluzzo, reaching up to hug one of the defense lawyers, Robert Glass, who was crying.  ''We're going to have a party,'' said another defense lawyer, John Reed. ''Yes, we were confident,'' he told reporters who had joined the melee.  Amid the confusion, Judge Robert Burns, who presided at the trial, walked almost unnoticed down the courthouse corridor, telling someone: ''I think she got a fair trial. I think she did.''  At a news conference a few hours after the verdict, Mrs. Foat was smiling and refreshed. Calling her acquittal a victory for women ''who have a plight in life where they have to stay in a situation because of social mores,'' she said: ''If I had been a white middle-class man with an ex-wife who had come up and said, 'This man is a murderer,' and if this woman was a deranged alcoholic, I would not have been prosecuted.'' Mrs. Foat, who became a caterer and entered feminist politics in California after divorcing Mr. Sidote in 1970, said her first priority was to go back to California, ''put my life together'' and gather money to pay for her defense.  She said proceeds from a book and a movie that are ''in progress'' would go to that end and to a new organization helping women involved in legal cases. Then, she said, she would go to law school and enter politics.  Attempt to Dispel Emotion  Prosecutors and defense lawyers, who finished presenting testimony in the case yesterday, made their closing arguments during most of the morning and into the afternoon.  Prosecutors tried in their arguments to dispel the emotion that had accumulated in the courtroom as Mrs. Foat testified about beatings and other abuse she suffered in her five-year relationship with Mr. Sidote.  Mr. Sidote, 45, the second of Mrs. Foat's four husbands, had accused her of killing 62-year-old Moises Chayo after luring him into a car and driving him to an isolated area near here, with Mr. Sidote riding in the car trunk.  District Attorney John Mamoulides told the jury: ''Some of you were concerned whether the state would be able to prove after 18 years the guilt of the defendant and that is the burden of the state. But there was evidence.'' He said that had the trial occurred one year after the murder instead of 18 years, there would have been no more witnesses than now.  Despite the testimony about Mr. Sidote's beating Mrs. Foat and attacking his way of life, Mr. Mamoulides said: ''The only crime you have to consider is the death of Mr. Chayo and whether or not Virginia Foat participated as a principal in that crime.''  Dates of Disappearnce Noted  Assistant District Attorney Tom Porteous said: ''What is undisputed in the case is that Moises Chayo is dead. Moises Chayo was in that ditch.'' Mr. Porteous pointed out that Mr. Chayo disappeared sometime Nov. 20 or Nov. 21, 1965, dates that coincide with Mr. Sidote's testimony.  Mr. Sidote implicated Mrs. Foat in the crime in January 1977, when he voluntarily confessed to the police in Albany, N.Y., about the Chayo murder and another murder in Nevada. He is serving a 25-year sentence for the Nevada murder but after he was sentenced, he refused to testify against Mrs. Foat, whom he had implicated in that murder.  Mr. Porteous made sarcastic references to Mrs. Foat's assertions that Mr. Sidote had threatened revenge if she ever left him.  ''This man who was so bent on revenge and hatred and wanted to see her rot in jail didn't attempt to communicate with her for seven years before he walked into the police station,'' Mr. Porteous said. ''He was bent on revenge and in 1977 he refused to testify against the defendant.''  Mr. Porteous questioned Mrs. Foat's assertion that she could remember details about beatings but could not remember important events on the evening of Nov. 20, the night it was charged that Mr. Chayo was murdered.  Mrs. Foat testified that she had fallen asleep that night over a book. She said she could not remember how she and Mr. Sidote and a traveling companion, a teen-ager named Wasyl Bozydha, had left New Orleans, though Mr. Sidote and Mr. Bozydha testified Mrs. Foat and Mr. Sidote left on separate planes and Mr. Bozydha drove their automobile to Texas.  'Must Be Held Accountable'  Mr. Porteous said Mrs. Foat was ''not that weak, as she would have you believe'' and that she had been ''a participant, a principal in the murder of Moises Chayo and must be held accountable.''  Mr. Glass said that Mr. Sidote, who says he is an alcoholic, had confessed to the police on binge, possibly because he wanted to go to jail where he could no longer get liquor, and that by confessing, he hoped to cause inconvenience to Mrs. Foat.  He called Mr. Sidote's story of the murder ''the big lie.''  Her Role in Sidote's Downfall  During rebuttal, a prosecutor, Gordon Konrad, said Mrs. Foat had been responsible for Mr. Sidote's downfall and that he had had a reasonably successful life before meeting her.  photo of Ginny Foat 
