19841117
WASHINGTON, Nov. 16— Reagan Administration officials have set an objective of driving the annual Federal deficit below $150 billion by 1988, high level officials said today.  To reach that goal, the officials said, the Administration budget would have to propose deep cuts in such domestic programs as Medicare, civil service retirement, student loans and farm subsidies.  Specific options for spending cuts to reach the target by the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 1988, will be presented to President Reagan after his Thanksgiving vacation in California.  No Balanced Budgets Sought  The projected deficits for this fiscal year and next are running at about $200 billion. Mr. Reagan has ruled out two possible ways to reduce them, raising taxes or cutting Social Security, and has expressed opposition to any slowing of military spending. Congress is expected to resist any proposal to slash domestic spending.  The spending reductions needed to reach the goal could exceed $50 billion a year, or more than 15 percent of Government spending other than for the military, Social Security or interest on the national debt.  Administration officials acknowledge that the goal of budget cutting is no longer to balance the budget, as Ronald Reagan promised in 1980. The goal now is to reach an ''acceptable'' decline in budget deficits over several years.  'We Have to Decimate Spending'  ''It is the view here that we have to get rid of programs if the deficit is really going to be reduced with domestic spending cuts,'' one official said today. ''We have to decimate spending.''  The official said that once this was clear to Mr. Reagan and his top advisers, it was unsure that such spending reductions would be part of the budget that Mr. Reagan is to send to Congress at the end of January.  The deficit is now about 5 percent of the annual output of goods and services, and the goal is to cut that figure to 2 to 3 percent. Some Administration officials say that achieving such a level, which translates to $100 billion to $150 billion a year by 1988 under current Administration economic projections, would show the deficit is being brought under control.  One official said the goals were ''target targets,'' which, he said, meant that the targets could be changed if the options presented to the President were not all approved.  Another official said that getting nearer the $100 billion level would require some reductions in the projected growth of military spending, which at this point is not an option Mr. Reagan will entertain. Congress Seen as Balking  Several officials said there was little prospect of negotiations with leaders of Congress in advance of the President's submission of the 1986 budget because of the expected emphasis on domestic spending cuts. Such negotiations had been suggested by some Administration officials and Congressional leaders as a way to avoid a budget stalemate next year.  One adviser to the President said the message of Mr. Reagan's election victory was no tax increases; no reductions in Social Security; cuts in other spending, and simplification of the tax code. He indicated that the Administration's best course now was to offer a budget putting this message into practice.  Without new spending reductions or tax increases by Congress, the Reagan Administration projects that the deficit for the fiscal year 1985, which began Oct. 1, will be $210 billion, followed by a deficit of about $200 billion in 1986. The projections for 1987 and 1988 are for only slightly lower deficits. Higher Projected Deficits  These projections are much higher than those made in August in the Administration's budget review. Then the 1985 projection was $172.4 billion, followed by $174.2 billion in 1986 and similar figures in 1987 and 1988.  The deficit in 1984 was $175.3 billion, down from $195.4 billion in the fiscal year 1983.  In preparing the budget for the coming fiscal year, the Administration plots a five-year budget path, which for the 1986 budget would carry projections through 1990. But officials said this week that they were focusing on what the deficit would look like by 1988 because Congress only looks ahead three years in setting its budget priorities.  At the Cabinet meeting Thursday, David A. Stockman, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, presented the broad outlines of the kind of reductions in programs that would be needed to reach the Administration's deficit target.  In the two meetings with his Cabinet this week, officials said Mr. Reagan gave the strongest instructions he has expressed in several years to cut domestic spending. 'Cabinet Has Gotten Religion'  ''Going into the process we were uncertain what the appetite in the Cabinet was for spending cuts,'' said another official. ''But I think the Cabinet has gotten religion on that.''  Another official was more worried about the results of the first week of budget talks. He said that while there was ''guidance to be tough on spending,'' no final decisons were made. He said it was likely that key decisions may be delayed until well into December.  While Mr. Reagan is in California next week, Mr. Stockman will begin his review of agency budget submissions. That usually leads to the director's cutting back the agency's requests. If Cabinet members object, the cuts proposed by the Office of Management and Budget can be appealed to a White House board and ultimately to the President.  At the same time, according to officials, Mr. Reagan's budget working group will be reviewing proposals for reductions in major program areas, including Medicare, Civil Service retirement and farm subsidies. 
