19811023
Dr. Arthur M. Bueche, senior vice president for corporate technology at the General Electric Company, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Bridgeport, Conn., after a brief illness. He was 60 years old and lived in Bridgeport.  Dr. Bueche joined G.E. in 1950 and became senior vice president in 1978. He was the company's principal technical officer and a member of the corporate executive council.  Under his leadership, a variety of discoveries and inventions were developed into commercial successes. These included engineered plastics, improved lamps, new medical technology, solid-state electronics, data-handling techniques and inventions in the generation, delivery and utilization of electrical energy. Innovator in Management  Dr. Bueche (pronounced Beeka) was recognized as a major innovator in the planning and management of technical activities, and became an internationally known spokesman on technology and energy policy.  Last April, he was offered the position of Presidential Science Adviser, but sources in the Reagan Administration said he had declined for personal reasons. During the Presidential transition period, he served as the new Administration's chief adviser on technology.  He was a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences, and served on a variety of engineering and scientific bodies for the government. He also belonged to the American Chemical Society, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Institute of Chemists. Doctorate in Chemistry  He was a graduate of the University of Michigan in 1943 and received a doctorate in physical chemistry from Cornell University. His marriage to the former Margaret Bassler ended in divorce. He is survived by a son, A. John of Elsworth, Me.; three daughters, Kristine of Wilmington, N.C.; Margaret of Ballston Lake, N.Y., and Elizabeth of Schenectady, N.Y.; and one grandchild. He is also survived by two brothers, Frederick J. of Flushing, Mich., and Bernard M. of Queens.  A funeral service will be held at 10 A.M. Tuesday at St. John's Evangelist Church, Schenectady.  Illustrations: photo of Dr. Arthur Bueche 
