20050902
 The Katrina Crisis   By Yergin, Daniel, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 2, 2005  What makes it an integrated crisis is that the entire energy supply system in the region has been disabled, and that the parts all depend upon each other for recovery. If the next weeks reveal that the losses are as large as some fear, this would constitute one of the biggest energy shocks since the 1970s, perhaps even the biggest. Unlike the crises of the '70s or the Gulf Crisis of 1990-91, this does not involve just crude oil: It includes natural gas, refineries and electricity. The 1.5 million barrels of oil production capacity that has been "shut-in" -- closed down -- is much less than was lost to the market when Saddam invaded Kuwait. But although it has received less attention, 16% of U.S. natural gas is also shut-in; and 10% of our refining capacity is under water at a time when there is no slack at all in the world's refining system. The electric and natural gas distribution system in the region has also been knocked out. All of this has a knock-on effect: Boats can't get out to the platforms without diesel fuel; and refineries can't operate without electricity or people. Those last two are the preamble to recovery. With communications broken down, companies are still trying to make contact with the missing employees who run the different parts of the energy infrastructure. As for electricity, a frontline manager summed up the problem: "You can't overemphasize the absolute enormity of the undertaking to put this place back together again."  How badly damaged is the Gulf complex, and how quickly can it come back? As an executive of a major oil company put it, "Our platforms and facilities are designed for a 100-year storm. But this storm was something else." Some of the platforms directly hit by [Katrina] are vividly damaged, and repair could take months, even longer -- depending on the availability of people and materials. Platforms more to the west will turn out not to have been damaged, and, after inspection, will be ready to go. Companies are already starting up some of the shut-in production. The LOOP -- the off-shore unloading port -- is back in partial operation, much more quickly than would have been expected. The big question surrounds underwater pipelines. Their vulnerability to mudslides was a prime lesson of last year's Hurricane Ivan, and remotely operated underwater vehicles will have to methodically assess the damage. Initially, 1.5 million barrels per day of oil were shut down with both Ivan and Katrina. Within six weeks of Ivan, the shut-in capacity was reduced to just 200,000, which persisted for several months. But Katrina was worse than Ivan and hit more of the bull's-eye. Unlike Ivan, it also devastated a significant part of the onshore logistical infrastructure that supplies the offshore. That suggests a slower rebound.  A great precept of energy security was laid out by Churchill when, on the eve of World War I, he converted the Royal Navy from (Welsh) coal to (Persian) oil. "Safety and certainty in oil lie in variety and variety alone," he said. In other words, diversification of supply sources expands the margin of security. Margaret Thatcher gave us an equally sturdy dictum: "The unexpected happens. You had better prepare for it." Disruption on the scale of Katrina was never anticipated, neither for the Gulf's energy complex, nor for the larger tragedy that unfolds. And hurricane season is not over. From now on, a hit of this scale will not be unexpected. But what else is out there? That is a question for the world's entire energy supply system. For surely, somewhere, the unexpected is brooding, and waiting to happen.   
