19880513
 Portrait of Reagan Painted by Kiss-and-Tell Books Shows a Commander Who Rarely Takes Command   By By Gerald F. Seib and Alan Murray, The Wall Street Journal,  May 13, 1988  Before Mr. Regan published his account, books were produced by former presidential spokesman Larry Speakes, former confidant Michael Deaver, former budget director David Stockman, former Secretary of State Alexander Haig and former domestic adviser Martin Anderson. The mosaic that emerges from some of the little-publicized anecdotes in those books shows a passive chief executive who often is manipulated by staff members far more ambitious and driven than he is.  Even Mr. Anderson, whose book is generally kind and avoids the kiss-and-tell stories prevalent in the other books, acknowledges that aides saw in Mr. Reagan's presidential campaigns that he "had one distinctive personality trait that was highly unusual, perhaps unique for someone who rose to the high level of managerial responsibility he attained. He made no demands, and gave almost no instructions. Essentially, he just responded to whatever was brought to his attention and said yes or no, or I'll think about it. . . . But we rarely talked about it among ourselves and never to outsiders. We kept it a secret."  Mr. Reagan often acts only when prodded, according to anecdotes recounted in several of the books, and even then doesn't fully comprehend the power of his office. Mr. Deaver, for instance, recalls that during Israel's 1982 seige of Beirut he walked into the Oval Office and announced that he was resigning because Mr. Reagan wouldn't stop Israel's bombings of the Lebanese capital. Mr. Deaver told Mr. Reagan that he could stop the siege simply by calling Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and telling him to stop it. The president looked stunned; he immediately called Mr. Begin and told him the bombing must end. Twenty minutes later, the Israeli leader called back to say he had ordered a halt. President Reagan put down the phone, Mr. Deaver recounts, and said: "I didn't know I had that kind of power."   
