19820522
The school board of West Springfield, Mass., said ''Nosirree!'' when its high school students asked to look at Greenwich Village on their trip to New York. A good thing, too. As a Villager, I didn't want to disillusion a lot of nice kids gawking at my house to ''observe people who live outside the norm free from harassment.''  That's what they thought they'd see down here. Honest injun. A place to which people ''escape to live their lives free from social restrictions.'' After the school board banned the Village, one member said, ''Mainly what the board thinks is going on down there would be people hanging around smoking marijuana. You might have different shops that sell pornographic materials.''  He's got Greenwich Village confused with the Upper East Side. The kids seem to have it confused with the Eighth Avenue subway station at 42d Street. Down in there everybody lives free of social restrictions and it's no place for a decent bunch of suburban high school students without experience at snatching gold chains or watching out for what they might step on.  True, every once in a while you observe somebody in the Village living outside the norm free from harassment. Coming home from the movies the other night I observed a man standing on a street corner eating a piece of watermelon. A few months ago I observed a man washing a plucked chicken in a public drinking fountain. Are sightings like these worth a trip all the way from West Springfield?  Apparently John Brademas, president of New York University, thinks so. He appealed the school board decision and they've relented slightly, agreeing to let the students visit the N.Y.U. campus in the Village. Since a few of them are bound to sneak away from the campus to see reality for themselves, the shameful secret of Greenwich Village may as well be told:  It's been bought by the middle class. The Bohemians have been routed by the Brooks Brothers and Bergdorf set. Bathtub gin and free love have been blitzed by white wine and quiche. Gentrifying landlords have given the bum's rush to struggling artists. Though you can still buy a little tumble-down row house just perfect for starving in, it'll cost you, oh, about what it would cost to buy the entire town of West Springfield, Mass.  Greenwich Villagers are ashamed of being middle class and suffer a lot to hide it. Thousands of tourists come down here to stare at us, thinking they're looking at dangerous radicals, sexual daredevils, brilliant undiscovered artists and people who spend their days swilling Sneaky Pete and crying, ''To hell with it all!''  It's embarrassing when they spot you going off to work wearing pinstripes and carrying a dispatch case. Well, you can't hold one of those big midtown skyscraper jobs necessary to afford Village real estate if you show up in the board room looking like Paul Gauguin in Tahiti.  As soon as we get home from work, though, the uptown threads are stowed in the closet and out come our Bohemian suits. The basic garments are a pair of blue jeans and a shirt that looks as if it does double duty as a pajama top. Shoes are also worn, but not socks. This means our toes sweat right into the shoe leather. The result is a high rate of athlete's foot among Village people.  You can always spot a Greenwich Village resident immediately in any gathering of corporate executives. He's the one sneakily trying to scratch his toes.  Besides dressing down to public expectations, Villagers are also supposed to sit in cafes once a month stirring coffee and staring tragically at the passing scene. The theory is that the tourists will take you for the next James Joyce or the late Pablo Picasso.  Actually it's all right to sit home and watch television 29 nights a month, which is what most Villagers do. There are unwritten rules though. The Village doesn't want anybody to get the idea that Village nights are just like nights in West Springfield, Mass. For this reason you're supposed to draw the blinds if your TV set can be glimpsed from the street.  I don't want to give the impression the Village lives completely inside the norms because it doesn't. There is a woman in the neighborhood here who keeps trying to steal a morning paper off the pile outside Vinnie's Variety store. Instead of letting her get away with it, as would be the case in normal New York neighborhoods, Vinnie always chases her up the street and takes his paper back, no matter how violently she curses him.  There are also a few neighbors who like to get out of their threepiece suits after a hard day in the executive suite and slip into Heinrich Himmler costumes. I don't think you'd find this in West Springfield, Mass., but what's so terrible about it?  There's a store a few blocks down that sells Himmler wear. Its display window is filled with chains, whips and various instruments of torture, but don't be alarmed. This is the new Greenwich Village. The sign on the door says, ''No Smoking Inside.'' 
