19810702
WASHINGTON, July 1— The Head Start program for needy preschool children would be eliminated under the budget package that passed the House last week, but Republican sponsors of the program say they will seek to authorize it under separate legislation.  The discovery that the bill contained no authorization of funds for Head Start was made today as Democratic and Republican staff aides continued the painstaking job of reading through the hastily assembled budget bill to determine if there were any errors.  A spokesman for the Republican sponsors of the bill said that they had intentionally removed Head Start because they liked the program so much that they wanted to finance it separately.  ''We're very much in support of Head Start,'' said Jennifer Vance, a senior legislative aide for the Republican minority on the House Education and Labor Committee. Part of 'Safety Net'  ''President Reagan wants it fully funded, and we decided to authorize it outside the budget reconciliation process,'' she said. ''After all, he considers Head Start part of his social safety net.''  In his address to a joint session of Congress on Feb. 18, Mr. Reagan said that ''there will be no cut in Project Head Start'' or other programs for the poor and disabled.  Democratic critics of the Republican budget package say they are convinced of Mr. Reagan's commitment to Head Start, but they say they suspect the authorization for the program was inadvertently dropped in the Republicans' haste to put together their own substitute for a bill cleared by the Democratic-controlled House Budget Committee.  Just yesterday the Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., criticized Republicans for what he described as the slap-dash way they had put together their budget package. ''Nobody knows what's in their bill,'' the Speaker complained.  The budget reconciliation bill that came out of the House Budget Committee but was later shelved in favor of the Republican substitute authorized $950 million for Head Start and $26.3 million for Project Follow Through in the next three fiscal years. This was the sum that President Reagan, too, had recommended. But the Republican substitute, under the subheading of Head Start-Follow Through, merely authorized sums for Follow Through, which is designed to supplement the Head Start program once children enter the elementary grades, at the rate of $44.3 million for each of the three fiscal years. No mention was made of authorized levels for Head Start.  An aide on the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee said that a staff member from the House Education and Labor Committee called him today ''in a panic'' and informed him that the Head Start authorization in the Republican budget bill ''had fallen through the cracks.''  The Senate budget reconciliation bill authorized just $820 million for Head Start. However, the Labor and Human Resources Committee won Senate approval last week to waive that figureand set the authorized level at the full $950 million sought by the President.  Since the House bill has no authorized levels for Head Start, this could pose something of a parliamentary problem in Senate-House conference on the budget reconciliation measure in the next few weeks. However, it is possible that the matter could be resolved by House conferees agreeing to the Senate's figure. 
