19810924
At around 4 P.M. yesterday, Danny Kaye was in intense preparation for the Pension Fund Concert of the New York Philharmonic. He was at his chiropractor's office, getting his muscles into shape.  At that time nobody, Mr. Kaye included, knew exactly what was going to be on the program or how he would handle it. Mr. Kaye, the mostappreciated amateur conductor in history, the conductor with a thousand faces and the ability to reduce an orchestra to a pitch of helplessness unparalleled since the invention of the printed note, had prepared much more material than he could possibly use.  As things turned out, everybody's gloomy predictions were realized. Mr. Kaye worked as his muse dictated, and his muse took unpredictable turns, ranging in all or in part from Rossini's ''Gazza Ladra'' Overture, the Ravel ''Bolero,'' some Beethoven, some Verdi, some television commercials, some Johann Strauss, ''Fiddle Faddle'' and other odds and ends from the great conductor's repertory.  Bundles of Batons  On the whole, Mr. Kaye was winging it in a sort of blind flight as he went along. He came out with two bundles of batons, at least 35, searched for his favorite, gave a vigorous upbeat and saw the baton fly about 20 feet behind him in to the audience.  He picked a fight with Glenn Dicterow, the concertmaster, and did not always come out on top. He did imitations of conductors - the neurotic type, the narcissistic type, the aged type. He even conducted a few pieces all the way through.  During all this, the members of the Philharmonic were looking on in wonderment, laughter, and sometimes, as in the case of the cellist Nathan Stutch, in sheer hysteria.  It is a unique repertory, unmatched by that of any other conductor in the business, and no more so when, last night, Mr. Kaye had the orchestra make up a symphonic work on the spot. ''Sounds like one of those modern symphonies,'' he commented durin g rehearsal. Orchestral Pact  But the orchestra was ready for Maestro Kaye's divagations. The players had learned from experience during the rehearsals. They had made pacts among themselves. Early along, the bassoonist, Judy LeClair, was supposed to play a solo. Suddenly there was silence from the instrument. It turned out that Miss LeClair was laughing so hard she could not play. Later, when the piccolo virtuosos stood u p for ''The Stars a nd Stripes Forever,'' they too broke down. So an agreement was made. For the first time in many years - since 1965, infact, which w as Mr. Kaye's last Philharmonic appearance - the musicians dec ided not to look at the conductor.  But the audience did, and it was an audience that broke all records for a Pension Fund concert, with a gross of $335,000. Tickets were priced at a $250 top.  After the concert there was a dinner under a tent in adjacent Damrosch Park. Some 800 people attended. A lighted archway led from the New York State Theater to the huge tent. It was a cold night, but with plastic inserts on all sides of the tent, and heaters inside, nobody was uncomfortable.  Among those at the concert were Cary Grant, Gregory Peck, Helen Hayes, Henry A. Kissinger, Jacob K. Javits, Abraham A. Ribicoff, Aldo Gucci, Felix G. Rohatyn, Beverly Sills, Mrs. Vincent Astor, Dr. Henry Clay Frick, John Macomber, Rodman Rockefeller, Martin Siegal and Pauline Trigere. First Concert in '58  It was Mr. Kaye's third appearance with the Philharmonic. The orchestra had been trying to get him for the last few years. Zubin Mehta, the music director, who is a close friend, was instrumental in making up Mr. Kaye's mind. When Mr. Kaye said yes, about a year and a half ago, the heads of the benefit - Carmel Malkin and Paula Root - got on the telephone, called everybody in town, buttonholed everybody they knew and in short order had a sellout on their hands.  Mr. Kaye had first done a New York Philharmonic Pension Fund concert in 1958, when Dimitri Mitropoulos was the music director. Mr. Mitropoulos did not think it a very funny event. He said that Mr. Kaye got a better sound from the players than he himself did. Last night, Mr. Mehta also said that, as far as the actual music went, there was nothing at all funny about it.  Mr. Mehta participated in the program, warming up the orchestra in Strauss's ''Fledermaus'' Overture. Then he turned the rest of the evening over to his guest conductor, though he served as master of ceremonies for the intermission broadcast, in which Mr. Kaye, Placido Domingo, Isaac Stern and Mr. Kissinger participated. It was televised on PBS from 8 to 10:30 P.M. 'His Best Is Very Good'  Some years ago, while music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, Mr. Mehta had been involved in a Danny Kaye Pension Fund concert. Last night's event only reinforced Mr. Mehta's initial impression.  ''The difference between Danny's comedy with music and Jack Benny's is that Jack played the violin the best he could, and it was awful. Danny does the best he can, and his best is very good. It's real orchestral routine. He has a natural beat, he keeps a steady rhythm, he knows exactly what he wants and knows exactly how to get it. The humor is superimposed. As far as the music itself, there is no distortion at all.''  Mr. Mehta said that during the rehearsals, and then at the concert, the members of the orchestra forgot that Mr. Kaye was a complete amateur. He knew all the entrances, he could handle such expressive devices as ritards, and he could even switch immediately from common time to alla breve, or two beats to the measure.  ''The orchestra,'' Mr. Mehta said, ''recognized innate musical talent and responded to it.'' Mr. Kaye was asked what he thought of the Philharmonic now as against his previous two appearances. ''Oh, my God! Oh, my God!'' he said. ''It's spectacular! They are playing spectacularly for me! Sensational! Incredible!''  Illustrations: photo of Zubin Mehta with Danny Kaye 
