19811114
The longstanding feud between the banking and securities industries has taken an unexpected turn with a major securities association endorsing a proposal to allow banks to move into the lucrative business of underwriting municipal revenues bonds - an area that securities firms have always regarded as theirs exclusively.  The executive committee of the Securities Industry Assocation, which represents concerns that do 90 percent of the nation's brokerage and investment banking business, endorsed a proposal by the Reagan Administration allowing banks to underwrite municipal securities under certain conditions. Six months ago, the same board reaffirmed its long-held opposition to entry by banks into this business.  Last year the market for underwriting municipal revenue bonds totaled some $34.3 billion in issues and generated commission revenues estimated at about $3 billion for the securities industry.  The S.I.A. outlined its new view in a letter this week to Senator Jake Garn, Republican of Utah, whose Senate Banking Committee is studying several bills to deregulate aspects of the banking industry. The issue has come up perennially in Congress and has gone nowhere, though the Senate twice passed bills in support of the banks' entry.  In October, Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan, the former chairman of Merrill Lynch & Company, presented in broad outline what appeared to be the skeleton of an Administration proposal to Congress. Additional Power to Banks  One possibility, he said, would be to give banks the power to underwrite state and local revenue bonds in addition to the generalobligation bonds they may now underwrite. Revenue bonds are securities to be repaid from the revenues of a particular project, such as a toll road.  The key difference between the apparent position of the Administration and an alternative proposal introduced by Senator Garn is that the Administration would require banks to set up separate securities affiliates to handle revenue-bond and other underwriting activities. The Securities Industry Association, in its letter, urged Senator Garn to adopt the Regan proposal requiring the separate subsidiaries.  ''It's a major concession from the Securities Industry Association probably based upon their realization that commercial banks could win outright authority from Congress without accepting the Administration's proposal for the requirement of a separate subsidiary or affiliate,'' a Congressional aide involved in the hearings said.  The two sides are fighting over a lot more than a lucrative piece of business. The larger issue is whether the wall between the bankers and brokers set up by the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which banned banks from nearly all areas of the securities business, should remain standing.  The Glass-Steagall wall has crumbled gradually in recent years as first one side and then the other has edged into the other's business. The bankers, however, deny that the push for revenue-bond business is part of any overall plan to get further into investment banking. 
