20070104
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Books: More Than Idol Speculation   By Eden, Dawn, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 5, 2007  Today, thanks to "Fame Junkies" author [Jake Halpern], I know that my psychiatrist and I were really BIRGing together. Though it sounds like a portmanteau of binging and purging, BIRGing is Mr. Halpern's shorthand for "Basking in Reflected Glory." On second thought, maybe it is about binging and purging -- devouring information about celebrities, especially if it has to do with one's own proximity to celebrity, and disgorging the information for anyone who might be impressed. BIRGing is perhaps the most obvious symptom of what Mr. Halpern asserts is America's widespread addiction to celebrity culture.  Mr. Halpern is in his element when doing character studies, and "Fame Junkies" is bursting with them. In addition the BIRGing Mr. [Dean Johnson], we meet -- in a chapter called "Mobs of Fame-Starved Children" -- young hopefuls who compete in the four-day International Modeling and Talent Association convention in New York, the child- talent industry's largest gathering. It is unnerving to see fame addiction in its first flower, when achieving actual celebrity, rather than basking in its reflection, still seems possible. Mr. Halpern also introduces us to various behind-the-scenes Tinseltown image-makers (publicists, stylists and a paparazzo). His portraits include idolizers such as Marcy Braunstein, a Rod Stewart superfan of the highest order. "If I'm trying to give flowers at a concert and he doesn't take them from me, or he takes them from someone else, I'm crushed," Ms. Braunstein says.  Mr. Halpern relies so much on outside opinion that contradictions crop up. Even when he's writing about non-BIRGing, non-boosting, garden-variety celebrity watchers -- in other words, alas, all of us -- he steps on his own message. At one point Mr. Halpern writes that interest in celebrities is often the manifestation of a lonely single person's desire to form "para- social" relationships with stars. But at another he approvingly cites Duke University researcher Michael Platt's assertion -- based on his study of information-gathering in groups of monkeys -- that steeping oneself in the celebrity lore offered by US Weekly and Star magazine gives one "an advantage in the reproductive race."   
