19811117
Fear of nuclear war is prompting more Americans to turn to their churches for help in halting the arms race, according to many of the 700 participants in a conference on disarmament sponsored by the Riverside Church.  More than half of those taking part in the three-day conference, which began Sunday night at the Riverside Church, 490 Riverside Drive, planned to leave New York for Washington today to spend the day lobbying on Capitol Hill against increased military spending.  The group will also go to the White House in hope of presenting a petition to President Reagan asking for the reduction of nuclear arsenals, an end to military intervention in other countries and the restoration of funds for social services. More Leaders Urging Activism  The threat of nuclear war, with its peril to the survival of humanity, is seen in many churches as a moral and theological problem. A growing number of churches and religious leaders have issued statements urging their members to become activitists for disarmament and peace.  ''We are now seeing in the churches a sense of moral revulsion about the arms race,'' said Richard Barnet of the Institute for Policy Studies, a Washington foreign-policy study group.  Addressing more than 1,000 people in the nave of the Riverside Church on Sunday, Mr. Barnet said that the Reagan Administration was ''pushing the myths of the arms race with greater fervor than any other Administration of the nuclear age.''  At a luncheon yesterday at the church, Dr. June Jackson Christmas, a former New York City Commissioner of Mental Health and now a professor of behavioral science in the City University, said the arms race was taking an ''emotional toll'' in America.  ''In small doses, those who make policy are adapting us to the idea that there can be a nuclear war,'' she said. She added that Americans were being fed the ''myths'' that a nuclear war could be limited, that there was a chance of win ning such a conflict and a way of ''reducing losses.''  ''In the most fundamental sense,'' Dr. Christmas said, ''it is a battle for the soul of humanity.'' Dr. Helen Caldicott, an Australian physician who is head of Physicians for Social Responsibility, an international group, said Sunday night:  ''Doctors estimate that within 40 days after a major nuclear exchange, 90 percent of Americans would be dead. When you think about this, it really doesn't matter whether we do well at work, whether we look after our children and give them good food or we love each other or live a good life. By our pacivity, we've allowed this to happen.'' Sharing Experiences  Delegates to the the conference spent most of their time in small workshops, where people shared experiences and discussed how to organize local churches around disarmament concerns.  Nearly all attending the conference came from church-related disarmament groups, and the Rev. Robert Davidson, moderator of the United Presbyterian Church, said yesterday, ''Peacemaking is an issue where we can mobilize the churches.''  The New York pastor, who was elected head of the United Presbyterian Church last summer, added, ''Wherever I go in conservative or moderate territory, I mention the importance of peacemaking and the nuclear freeze, and people stand up and cheer.'' Disarmament Activity on Rise  In the coming months there will be a flurry of disarmament activity involving church groups, said the Rev. William Sloane Coffin, senior minister of the Riverside Church.  The church's disarmament program and several other Christian and Jewish groups are promoting a ''peace sabbath'' over the Memorial Day weekend, and representatives of churches expect to be present when the United Nations disarmament conference meets in New York next June.  Mr. Coffin also said that a delegation from the Riverside Church would attend a disarmament conference in Amsterdam later this month sponsored by the World Council of Churches and hoped to ''twin'' congregations in this country with congregations in Europe for joint action on disarmament.  ''It was only yesterday that we worried that one part of the globe couldn't protect itself against another,'' Mr. Coffin said in his Sunday sermon. ''Today it's the whole world that can't protect itself against the parts.''  In a workshop on mobilizing religious groups for disarmament activities, Don Ebener, a staff member of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, an organization of religious pacifists, said: ''Never has there been a time when there is more interest in disarmament among religious communities.'' Peacemaking, he said, is becoming an ''integral part of the faith communities.'' Need for Balance Stressed  Natasha Surchek of the Community Congregational Church in Tiburon, Calif., said church members were sometimes fearful that the issue would polarize the religious community. Nonetheless, she went on, her congregation had sent her to the conference ''so that I could learn all I can about the issue and take it home with me.''  ''We must be careful to listen to all sides,'' said the Rev. Priscilla Inkpen, a pastor from Scotia, N.Y., who explained that many of her members worked for General Electric, which built the engines for the newly launched Trident nuclear submarine. ''People are caught between fear and fear,'' she said. ''They are afraid of what will happen if we do not disarm, and they are afraid of the Soviet Union if we do.''  Churches are revamping educational materials so they can deal with the ethics of nuclear weaponry, several participants said, and a group called Educators for Social Responsibility has devised a curriculum titled ''Decision-making in the Nuclear Age,'' which can be used in public or parochial schools. Roberta Snow, a reseacher with the organization, said the curriculum was designed to help children develop criteria for ''judging technology.'' Broad Support Claimed  While the church-related disarmament movement bears some of the marks of other religious social efforts, organizers of the conference here stressed that their concerns often were shared by both conservative and liberal religious groups.  At the same time that the movement is trying to influence world governments, it is trying to cultivate a ''peace life style'' within itself, one conference participant noted. ''It is more than taking the right position on specific issues,'' said Matthew Bruhn, a West German youth who is spending a year working in a Brooklyn church. ''It is learning to live a peaceful way yourself.''  One of the most widely distributed statements calling for believers to work for disarmament has been the ''new abolitionist covenant,'' drafted by the Sojourners, an evangelical fellowship in Washington.  The covenant, read as a devotional beginning to one conference session, says in part, ''Whatever we say to the government must be based first on what we ourselves have publicly committed to do and not to do in the face of a nuclear war.'' Stressing prayer and spiritual examination, the covenant says that ''we will offer faith in God as an alternative to trust in the bomb.''  Illustrations: photo of a workshop on economics photo of Dr. June Jackson Christmas 
