19851117
HOBOKEN— STARTING a theater is a risky business, but there's no stopping the stagestruck.  Under the co-artistic direction of Joan Matthiessen, the Hoboken Theater Company is the newest professional organization purporting to ''serve the community.'' However, it is by no means a community theater of the sort that might be found with part-time or amateur actors.  The performers engaged for the premiere production here - ''Ties That Bind,'' a double bill that opened on Oct. 31 and runs through Nov. 23 -are Actors Equity members who have committed themselves to playing and staying together.  According to the vision of Miss Matthiessen and her co-artistic director, Jim Boerlin, a Manhattan-based actor, the company's ensemble spirit is directly related to community support and rapport.  ''When people see the same actors in different parts, they can identify with the company and a communal feeling comes out of it,'' Miss Matthiessen said.  Commenting on the pitfalls of picking what she calls ''a core company,'' Miss Matthiessen said: ''When their careers are hot, actors want to further them. But this effort requires sticking around. We're not into the 'in and out' casting business.''  One of the cast members, Lorraine Serabian, has been seen in the original casts of such Broadway musicals as ''No Strings'' and ''Zorba.'' Another, Steve Hofvuendahl, lives in Hoboken and has appeared in productions at Montclair's Whole Theatre.  Miss Matthiessen, an actress since 1960, and her husband, William Jones, an architect, have been living in Hoboken since 1982. For what Miss Matthiessen described as the company's ''large open space,'' a former bank was selected.  It is part of a renovation project that includes the construction of condominiums in the rear of the currently makeshift theater, which seats a maximum of 75.  The space is being rented, show by show, with no guarantee of stability so far.  Under the theater company's agreement with Actors Equity, it can operate a first season in accordance with the theatrical union's usual ''showcase'' rules. Only 16 performances of each production are allowed, but minimum salaries are waived so long as the performers are paid for their expenses.  For the first production, private donations resulted in a budget of $5,500, and one of the performers brought in the curtain from Broadway's Imperial Theater, which is currently being redesigned, and is considered, in theater parlance, ''a good-luck house.''  This is because the Imperial was the original site of such hits as ''Annie Get Your Gun,'' ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and ''Dreamgirls.''  The current double bill includes ''Jailer Jailed,'' an adaptation of a short story by Anton Chekhov, and ''Overruled,'' a seldom-seen one-act play by George Bernard Shaw.  In the former, a henpecked husband hopes to take a holiday without his wife. However, all plans eventually go awry.  The Shavian piece also has to do with separate vacations. In this work, two couples split up just to spend time away from each other. The husband of one meets the wife of the other while traveling, and all wind up at the same seaside resort.  Miss Matthiessen describes the playlet as ''a farce in words.''  To tie the plays together - note the umbrella title - turn-of-the-century slides are shown, with actors playing ''travelogue salesmen'' introducing each act.  Come April, ''Suggs,'' a dark, satirical comedy by David Wiltse, will be offered. It was originally presented at Lincoln Center in 1972.  ''We're choosing material of real value not so often done,'' Miss Matthiessen said. ''If audiences want to see Neil Simon, they can go across the river.''  The Hoboken Theater Company is at the West Bank Theater, 313 First Street, Hoboken. Performances are Thursday and Friday at 8 P.M. and Saturdays at 7 and 9 P.M. Tickets are $8 ($5 for students and the elderly).  Information: (201) 653-1727.  Photo of Timothy Farmer with Julie Gibson in ''Overruled'' 
