19820622
The United States Steel Corporation, asserting that the steel industry ''is in its worst market crisis since the Great Depression,'' said yesterday that it would reduce salaries for its 20,000 management-level employees by at least 5 percent, effective July 1.  The reductions, which would range up to 30 percent in the case of the company's most senior executives, were announced in a letter to employees from U.S. Steel's chairman, David M. Roderick. He said the action was necessary because of ''the severe impact of the collapse in the markets for most of our products.''  The nation's largest steel manufacturer also said that 7,000 nonmanagement employees, including secretaries and others who are not represented by a union, would have cost-of-living wage increases frozen beginning July 1. The company declined to elaborate on when the increases were due or how much they amounted to.  The company also declined to estimate how much it expects to save as a result of the measures. The U.S. Steel announcement follows similar actions taken earlier this year by other major steel companies, including No.2 Bethlehem and the National Steel Corporation. Early this month, the nation's eight largest steel manufacturers also asked the United Steelworkers union to renegotiate its current labor agreement, which expires on Aug. 1, 1983.  Steel industry analysts said they agreed with Mr. Roderick's assertion that the steel industry is facing its most serious problems since the Depression. They added that U.S. Steel is also saddled with an enormous bank debt, which the company now puts at $2.3 billion, that resulted from its acquisition of the Marathon Oil Company in March.  Industry economists, in projections made over the last three months, estimate that total shipments by American manufacturers this year will fall below 80 million tons for the first time since 1963, when the industry shipped 75.5 million tons. The industry shipped 87 million tons last year.  For U.S. Steel, the salary reductions also follow a broader asset redeployment program announced by Mr. Roderick two weeks ago. At that time, he said the company plans to raise between $500 million and $750 million this year through the sale of inventory, commercial real estate, timberland and other assets. Headquarters for Sale  Yesterday, a U.S. Steel spokesman confirmed earlier rumors that the company is looking for a buyer for its corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh as part of its effort to raise cash.  The company spokesman, Andrew D. Staursky, added that the salary reductions announced yesterday were separate from the broader asset redeployment program. He cited an extremely weak market for steel products as the reason for the new measure, saying ''our order book has been down and it just seems to stay down.''  U.S. Steel said that within the management group, executive-level personnel would have their compensation reduced by an average of 25 percent annually, with pay cuts ranging from 5 percent to 30 percent. In addition, it said the executives' incentive compensation plans, or bonuses based on performance, would be suspended for the 1982. Holidays Eliminated  Several benefits will also be reduced for the management and nonunion employees, the company said. These include elimination of a fifth week of vacation for long-term employees, elimination of two paid holidays a year, elimination of a dental care program and adjustments in other health programs.  For its first quarter, ended March 31, U.S. Steel said its net income plummeted to $79.9 million, or 88 cents a share, from $270.9 million, or $3.06 a share in the first quarter of 1981. Sales advanced 47 percent, to $5 billion, from $3.4 billion.  The company has not released its results for the second quarter, but Mr. Roderick said recently he expects the company to be near break-even.  Robert A. Hageman, an analyst for Kidder, Peabody & Company in New York, said he does not expect the company's steel making and marketing operations to be profitable this year. If the company does turn a profit, he added, it will be largely a result of proceeds from the sale of assets.  Mr. Hageman said the salary reductions announced yesterday ''are not terribly significant themselves, but as part of a bigger effort should be important for the company.''  The measures ''should have a psychological impact by telling shareholders, Washington, union employees and the rest of the industry just how bleak the company's situation is,'' he said. 
