19860211
 Europe: Portuguese Voters Face a Real Choice Between Left and Right   By By William McGurn, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 12, 1986  But Sunday's presidential runoffs between the former Socialist prime minister, Mario Soares, and the founder of Portugal's Christian Democrat Party, Diogo Freitas do Amaral, may have the fadistas singing a different tune. This heralds the first civilian president here for 60 years. The president's powers may be narrow and mostly negative -- a legislative veto, for example. But the choice between these two strong democratic candidates is a choice between two alternate visions: between a Portugal that continues to limp along on failed Socialist dogmas or one where an industrious citizenry will finally be permitted to prosper. "I do not believe a collectivist state-owned society is either necessary or inevitable in Portugal," says Mr. Freitas do Amaral.  As the only right-of-center presidential candidate, Mr. Freitas do Amaral was expected to survive January's first round of elections. The surprise was his 46% showing, since an unwritten rule holds that Portugal is split 60/40 in favor of the left. Of the other candidates, Maria de Lourdes Pintasilgo was a populist left-wing Catholic intellectual whose Third Worldism evidently failed to inspire an electorate more interested in moving Portugal into the First World. The favored candidate, Francisco Salgado Zenha, gained from an endorsement by the current president, Gen. Antonio Ramalho Eanes, but showed no great lust for the office and suffered from the Communist endorsement. The real victor was the affable Mr. Soares, who overcame an 8% last-place rating to move within reach of the presidency.  Since even this conservative challenger speaks of his differences with Mr. Soares as means and not ends, many observers are saying that this is merely a personal election. Mr. Freitas do Amaral is quick to cite the recent resolution of Portugal's Communist Party supporting its arch-enemy, Mr. Soares. Mr. Soares hints darkly about anti-democratic right-wingers associated with Mr. Freitas do Amaral. But their impeccable democratic credentials mean few take the charges seriously, probably including the candidates themselves.   
