19810210
WRITING for the theater should be made an educational key to unlocking young people's talents, says Gerald Chapman. Mr. Chapman, who headed a young people's playwriting project in Britain, this month embarked on a similar program in the United States.  Mr. Chapman hopes to duplicate through drama the educational successes of music. Music, he says, ''has become a very real instrument of power in the hands and voices of young people.'' The secret of such success, he adds, is that children actually start singing and playing an instrument at an early age, perhaps in imitation of professional artists. Why not, he asks, accomplish as much through writing for the theater?  Mr. Chapman yesterday announced the launching of a nationwide Young Playwrights' Festival and a New York-based Young Writers' Project, both under the auspices of The Dramatists Guild, an organization of professional playwrights, composers and lyricists. By September, he expects to announce the selection of four to six plays, written by these young playwrights - students in elementary, junior high and high school. Next year, those plays will be presented in a special two-week run at the Circle Repertory Company, one of the city's leading nonprofit theaters dedicated to the discovery of dramatic talent.  The new educational venture is based on seven years' experience in Britain, where the Royal Court Theater established an annual Young Writers' Festival in 1973. Mr. Chapman directed the London project from 1976 to 1980.  Central to the idea are intensive one-day workshops conducted in schools by Mr. Chapman, usually together with a noted playwright or other stage personality. At a recent session at Brooklyn's John Dewey High School, which was attended by eight girls and three boys, Mr. Chapman was joined by Eve Merriam, the poet, playwright and teacher.  The discussion ranged from questions about how to make a play ''real'' or ''believable'' through problems posed concerning human values, the need to find common ground with the audience and ways to build bridges between people on and off stage.  The students came up with these imaginary dramatic situations around which to write a scene:  - A condemned house with the entrance boarded up; a family still living there; an elderly woman leaning out of a window.  - A devastated house; silence; two gun shots; two people run across the stage.  - Kitchen; family meal, an empty chair; someone is late. Mr. Chapman chose the last of these and spent 40 intense minutes letting the students flesh out the details, the action, the props, the people's feelings. A note on the blackboard said: ''The sister is late because she is pregnant .... The kid brother is the only person who has an inkling of what is going on with his sister. He is protective of her. The older brother has changed - he is posh, and this conflicts with the old family values.''  ''We then asked all the kids to write up the scene,'' Mr. Chapman says. ''We gave them just over 20 minutes for this, deliberately, as an exercise in economy.''  The youngsters groaned over the task, but grew enthusiastic as their imagination and writing skills gathered momentum. When they read their scenes aloud, they plunged into fierce arguments about family relationships, ways of presenting information through dramatic action rather than merely talking about it, and so forth.  Eventually, each youngster was given an hour and a half to finish a sketch of the whole play. ''The kids had never written plays before,'' Mr. Chapman said, ''and they were wholeheartedly keen on the exercises. We emphasized that it was just that: an exercise, and that it was important to carry on afterwards and write their own work.''  In the past three weeks, Mr. Chapman has conducted similar workshops in half a dozen public high schools and several junior high and elementary schools in Manhattan, Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx.  Reporting on his past experience in England, Mr. Chapman recalled a workshop with 11- and 12-year-olds. One exercise was to spend five minutes writing a first impression of one other person, never met before, from the group. This led to short improvisations based on these character sketches. Another exercise started with a single word on which to build a story. One workshop, for students from 13 to 18, began with a half-hour discussion of ''Why write a play?'' and ''What must a play do?''  As the Young Writers' Project and the preparation for the first American Young Playwrights' Festival got under way last week, the Guild opened the nationwide competition to all potential playwrights 18 years and under. Entries must be submitted by June 15 to ''Young Playwrights'' Festival, The Dramatists Guild, 234 West 44th Street, New York 10036.  Despite its association with professional theater, Mr. Chapman sees the project primarily as an educational one, giving the theater a more constructive pedagogical role than the routine school play as an extracurricular activity.  His London experience, Mr. Chapman said, persuaded him that academic ability was not a criterion, and that motives, like subject matter, varied from wanting to write a play as a personal diary to writing it as part of school homework. ''Often the best plays come from the most unlikely sources,'' he added.  Rather than interfering with school work, he believes, the project complements the work of imaginative teachers who are concerned with developing their pupils' creative talents.  If the project accomplishes nothing else, it may prod some youngsters into writing, thus helping to revive a skill that has, by many accounts, been going into steep decline. 
