19980909
 Gambits and gadgets in the world of technology   The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 10, 1998  COMPUSA Inc. didn't acquire any companies under the leadership of Nathan Morton, a former president. A Digits column item on Sept. 10 erroneously reported that Mr. Morton started the company through acquisitions. He joined the company in 1989 when it was acquired from its founders by an investor group.  Amazon.com's stock closed at almost $110 a share in early August when it announced deals to buy the two closely held firms. Shareholders of Junglee, a shopping database, would receive stock then worth $176 million; owners of PlanetAll, an on-line contact manager, were suddenly worth $99 million. Then came the recent downturn in Internet stocks, which left Amazon at just $84.50 yesterday. Junglee's owners now hold Amazon stock worth $135 million -- $41 million below the value when the deal was disclosed -- while the PlanetAll deal has dropped $23 million to $76 million. People familiar with the matter say that some employees of the two start-ups now hold options for Amazon stock that are exercisable at well above the stock's current level, dampening enthusiasm for the deals.  THE NEXT SUPERSTORE? While more than 500 electronics dealers gather in New Orleans today to look at the latest in digital TV and home theater, Nathan Morton is going to look at the dealers. Mr. Morton, who started the CompUSA superstore chain through acquisitions, is hoping to use high-end home electronics to create another successful chain. Now chairman of StarPower, a home theater retailer with two outlets in Dallas, he aims to buy similar small dealerships and revamp them so they have a consistent look and inventory. He declines to talk about his budget. But Mr. Morton believes the strong housing market and arrival of digital TV make home theaters an appealing business. Plus, he says, "Profit margins are better than computers" -- something that PC retailers such as CompUSA are finding to be truer every day.   
