19820808
WHEN LeRoy Nelson retired as chief designer for G. Fox & Company, the state's largest department store, he sold his rambling Victorian cottage with its pond and swans, packed up all his antiques and headed for a beachfront apartment in Florida.  One year later, he repacked all his belongings and moved back to Connecticut. ''The incessant clatter of those palm trees - day and night, day and night,'' complained Mr. Nelson, who is approaching 70 with grace and good nature. ''And the women down there ...,'' he paused, thinking of a tactful way to put it. ''Well, let's just say the women far outnumber the men.''  On his return from the South, Mr. Nelson, like many retired people, was faced with a new problem: where to live. First of all, he wanted a small house, easy to maintain and easy to buy. Second, he wanted to be around other people, while holding on to his privacy - and his dog, a poodle-terrier named Taffy. Finally, he needed to be within short driving distance to stores, the post office and other necessary places.  He ended up in a trailer park. ''They don't say 'trailer park' any more,'' the white-haired man cautioned, with just a hint of a smile. ''They say 'adult community.' And I really don't live in a trailer; it's a modular home, although most of my neighbors do live in mobile homes.''  While he was searching for a place to buy, Mr. Nelson was accompanied by the godchild of an old friend. This young man was aghast when his companion decided to buy the small house facing the main road in a trailer park.  ''I remember stepping through the front door here, running through the house and asking the agent: 'How much deposit do you want?' Mr. Nelson said. ''My young friend quickly hauled me aside and said 'Roy, if you buy this house you'll have to get rid of all your antiques.' ''  '' 'George,' '' I told him, '' 'by the time I move in, you won't even be able to see the walls.' '' He leaned forward to make his point. ''In other words, the antiques are supposed to camouflage the inside. I bought the place in 20 minutes.''  Mr. Nelson was right about the camouflage; hardly an inch of wall space is left bare. Coming in to the rather ordinary-looking aluminum sided house - distinguished only by two pineapple finials on pedestals near the front door - the interior is a complete surprise; an amazing exercise in trompe l'oeil, antique collecting and just plain fun.  When he bought the house, there was a clear view from the front door through the kitchen to the metal back door with its square, louvered-glass window. Now a mirror and wall break this view. Beneath the mirror is a Hepplewhite card table, and on the table is an assortment of marbled eggs, opaline drapery finials, plaid china ''parlor balls'' - and a blue, glazed bust of a Nubian slave.  To the left of the front door, the artificial-wood paneled wall is filled with paintings: a Landfeer portrait of a dog, a Hudson River school landscape and an early 19th-century portrait of a woman, fancifully trimmed around the edges with roses added by the 20thcentury artist, Peter Hunt.  In the living room, which measured only 12 by 20 feet, guests may sit in either of the pair of baroque arm chairs upholstered in the original red velvet with applied gold, thick silk trapunto. Then there is the old cock-fight corner chair, where the bettor cheered on his bird sitting ''backward'' on the leather seat, his arms resting chest high over the rolled back. A large French empire chest of drawers with a granite top stands diagonally across from a Biedermeier chest inlaid with fruitwood.  A low, dark trunk with the coastline of Venice painted on its side has been placed in front of an undraped window. Next to it, a Japanese storekeeper's terra cotta cat from the 1800's holds out a paw in welcome.  The furniture is kept low, Mr. Nelson explains, and there are no draperies on the side or rear picture windows, which overlook the lawn and an old stone wall.  ''One night, I had a dinner party and one man asked everybody what was missing from the living room,'' he said. ''Well, everyone thought and finally one lady answered 'a T.V.' That's true, too - I despise the way a television looks - but the man said 'No, it's that there is no couch.' ''  Couches, Mr. Nelson explained, take up a lot of space and much of that space is wasted. ''You have a big bulky couch that seats four,'' he said. ''And how many times do four people sit along a couch? Usually it's one or two. I have seven chairs in here and really, that's plenty.''  Off the living room is the dining room, which faces the back lawn and in which Mr. Nelson has placed three trompe l'oeil panels in the corners. The gayly painted panels - in the guise of corner cupboards - were commissioned for a room he designed for a trade show in Chicago years ago. The bright red around their edges is picked up in red wall-to-wall carpeting that covers the floors in both the living and dining rooms.  But the most magnificent display may well be the collection in a huge Venetian cupboard on the wall between the dining room and the kitchen. Painted a dull, viridian green with silver over gold leaf decoration, the shelves hold 172 pieces of mercury glass: shiny silver toddy mugs, bowls, covered sugars and creamers, vases and reflectors.  Mr. Nelson rejects the theory that small spaces should be left bare. ''I collect everything,'' he explained, tempting listeners with tales of more treasures packed away in crates and stored elsewhere. ''I think by creating spacial illusions - like extending window curtains to the ceiling, above where the windows themselves end - you can make up for some of the space lost by having so many things.''  In this tiny modular home, it is possible to miss entire collections. In an old glass jar on a side table there is a collection of Bohemian Easter eggs, plain white china eggs once placed under reluctant hens to make them lay, and Russian painted eggs.  Then there is his collection of old copper molds embossed with lions and even a Russian imperial eagle - all inherited from his Swedish mother, herself an inveterate collector who returned to her native land every other summer and brought back ''a trunkful of stuff,'' he said.  In the bedroom, one wall is dotted with ships models and in the den -where there is a small portable television set - a recently purchased glass vitrine holds an assortment of miniature toy soldiers, cardboard houses and dolls.  ''I used to bring them out once a year and put them under the Christmas tree,'' Mr. Nelson said, ''but at my age, I decided it was perfectly ridiculous to see them only 10 days a year.''  In accommodating all the small spaces, Mr. Nelson made few concessions - but the one he did make was a dramatic one: He had to cut off six inches from the legs of his four-poster bed, made in New York State around 1780.  The ceilings in his modular home are only seven-and-a-half-feet tall. The bed was slightly over eight feet.  Illustrations: photo of LeRoy Nelson, dog Taffy photo of modular home photo of bust of a Nubian slave photo of antiques in living room 
