20030620
 Taste: Best of Enemies   By By John J. Miller, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 20, 2003  At the Treaty of Paris negotiations, the French crown secretly and successfully urged Britain to deny the colonists' claims west of the Alleghenies. Relations were no better during the early days of the American republic. One of the first ministers France sent to the U.S. was Citizen Genet, a man who did everything he could to undermine President Washington's determination to keep his country neutral in the war France had declared on Britain in 1793. A few years later the French foreign minister Talley-rand demanded a large bribe before he would meet with American diplomats in what became known as the XYZ Affair. This flap led to a series of naval skirmishes -- the first war waged by the U.S. against anybody.  The 20th century was little better. The real struggle at the Versailles Peace Conference ending World War I wasn't between the Allies and the Central Powers but between the U.S. and France, which insisted on onerous punishments for Germany. Twenty-five years later a young French journalist, Hubert Beuve-May, wrote on the eve of D-Day: "The Americans constitute a real danger for France." He went on to found and edit Le Monde, France's most important newspaper and a proud bastion of anti-Americanism ever since.  What about the cultural side of the French "alliance"? Surely deep affinities exist, whatever the clashes of statesmen and kings. It is true that Gertrude Stein had settled in Paris in the 1920s and that Hemingway came to visit her there, along with any number of expatriate writers and intellectuals. What this "lost generation" found, unfortunately, was yet another myth -- of alienated artistic "authenticity." For years now it has drawn hordes of college students and misguided romantics to Paris, where they put on black turtlenecks, smoke Gauloise cigarettes and look for the next Picasso. Jean-Paul Sartre added to the myth a couple of decades later, making authenticity a whole philosophy of life even as he agitated for the Communist Party.   
