19820817
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 16— The American Bar Association, by deferring action last week on a new model code of professional responsibility, demonstrated the difficulty of reforming a code that is at best ambiguous and outmoded.  At worst, some critics say, the existing code shields dishonest lawyers who help their clients to commit crimes and financial frauds. Richard G. Alberton, a San Francisco lawyer, carried a large sign questioning the current ethical standards around the hallways of the Hilton Hotel at the A.B.A. convention here last week. ''The lawyer who knowingly represents a lying client is a thief trying to share the proceeds,'' he said in an interview.  More than five years ago a special commission was appointed to draft a new model code, and more than a year ago it proposed for adoption a complex ''final'' version, which has since been amended repeatedly.  Adoption Is Likely  The 387-member House of Delegates voted last Tuesday not to act on the new code until the association's midwinter meeting. It appears not impossible, but far from certain, that the proposed code will eventually be adopted, probably with further amendments to reassure lawyers that it will not force them to change the way they do business.  Even if the proposed model code is adopted when the association convenes in New Orleans in February, opponents will take the battle to the 50 state bar associations and courts that must give their approval for it to have any legal effect in their jurisdictions.  This poses the possibility that the regulation of legal ethics will become more and more balkanized, imposing conflicting obligations upon lawyers whose practices increasingly cross state and national boundaries.  The difficulty of building a consensus in the profession for reform of legal ethics also has some lawyers concerned that legislatures and Government agencies will become more active in regulating them, gradually superseding the profession's traditional monopoly in setting its own ethical standards. A Fundamental Ambivalence  The debate on the proposed ethics code at the convention and around the country has dramatized a fundamental ambivalence in the profession: When a lawyer's duty of loyalty to his client comes into conflict with his duty to be honest in dealings with the courts and others, which should prevail?  This conflict is presented most sharply when the client is a criminal, a defrauder or a perjurer, and the lawyer learns in the middle of a case or a transaction that his client has been lying to him and using his services to perpetrate a crime or fraud.  The current A.B.A. Model Code of Professional Responsibility, adopted in 1969 and followed by most of the state courts that set binding ethical standards for lawyers, presents a maze of ambiguities on what the lawyer should do in such cases.  For example, some experts, such as Monroe H. Freedman, the former dean of Hofstra Law School in Hempstead, L.I., interpret the current code as requiring a lawyer to help a criminal defendant give whatever testimony he wants, even if the client insists on perjuring himself. Other experts interpret the code as permitting but not requiring the lawyer to assist knowingly in perjury. Still others say it forbids lawyers from doing so.  The current code thus often leaves lawyers without any guidance as to their ethical obligations in the cases in which they most need it, while providing unscrupulous lawyers with a means to justify their conduct. 'Cloak for Dubious Behavior'  While in 1971 the bar association denounced the Freedman thesis that lawyers must sometimes help their clients lie as ''universally repudiated by ethical lawyers,'' 90 percent of the lawyers in a survey in the District of Columbia said they would call a criminal defendant who planned to lie to the stand and treat him as if he were telling the truth.  Jethro K. Lieberman wrote in a 1978 book, ''Crisis at the Bar,'' that ''too often the code serves as a convenient cloak for dubious behavior.'' The theme of Mr. Lieberman's book was that ''the public contempt for lawyers stems from their adherence to an unethical code of ethics.''  Most, if not all, bar association leaders reject such sweeping indictments. But the commission that drafted, and redrafted, the proposed code was appointed in part because the Watergate scandal had deeply shaken public confidence in the ethics of lawyers. Limits on Confidentiality  The proposed code includes provisions that would permit but not require lawyers to reveal the confidences of clients to prevent large financial frauds or ''to rectify the consequences of a client's criminal or fraudulent act in the furtherance of which the lawyer's services had been used.'' Robert J. Kutak, a prominent Omaha lawyer who heads the commission, wrote recently that those provisions were necessary to prevent lawyers from becoming enmeshed in such conduct by clients.  Some opponents, including the prestigious American College of Trial Lawyers, denounced the Kutak proposals as a threat to the traditional confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
