19870517
THE name Bulova has a secure place in the affections of northern Queens. The watch company built itself a home with Art Deco touches in Jackson Heights 35 years ago and manufactured fine watches there for years.  But watchmaking went to Japan, Bulova went to the Loews Corporation and in 1985 the Jackson Heights property wound up in the hands of Edward Blumenfeld, a developer from Syosset, L.I. His plan was to renovate it for corporate tenants.  Last week, the first major tenant, British Airways, started its move into Mr. Blumenfeld's new Bulova Corporate Center. The airline has taken 180,000 square feet on a 20-year lease for its North American operations -reservations, marketing and general administration - and is expected to have a work force of 800.  Elsewhere in Queens, office development is progressing as well, although on more conventional urban lines. It is touching communities such as Long Island City, Kew Gardens, Jamaica and College Point. With excavation under way for a huge new Citicorp building in Long Island City, that area in particular is turning a significant corner.  The British Airways lease has catapulted the Bulova Corporate Center into the position of the leading - and perhaps only - corporate park in the suburban mold in Queens. It is an unusually large site - 24 grassy acres - where ultimately there is to be parking for 1,200 cars, and perhaps one million square feet of office space.  Construction so far is limited to the original building. Mr. Blumenfeld is currently adding 100,000 square feet to the existing building, to give it a total of 450,000 square feet on only three floors. Two floors will have 160,000 square feet of space, and one has 130,000.  The British Airways lease is a demonstration that Queens can successfully compete for large tenants with office locations nationally. The broker in the transaction, Don Schnabel, senior vice president of Julien J. Studley Inc., looked at locations in or near Orlando, Fla.; Tulsa, Okla.; Washington, Chicago and New York City, as well as sites in New Jersey and on Long Island. British Airways planes land in all those cities. The airline was moving from 245 Park Avenue, and ultimately narrowed its choice to Queens or Nassau County. What tipped the balance, Mr. Schnabel said, was that the Bulova building could be ready more quickly than the new building that would have been needed in Nassau County. With financial assistance, including a lower occupancy tax, provided under New York City programs for companies that relocate in a borough outside Manhattan, and with the Consolidated Edison Company benefits on energy costs, the occupancy costs were competitive. British Airways will be paying a base rent of roughly $25 a square foot over the term of the lease, which is the average square-foot rental cost at the center. What makes the building itself extraordindary as an urban office building is that it offers so much space on so few floors, and in a campus setting. Its interior atrium is also unusually large - 50 feet wide and 200 feet long - with heavy plantings, a huge skylight and three glass-enclosed elevators. Around the atrium will be a restaurant, health club, shops and a 150-seat auditorium. The shops will line a concourse area leading to the atrium from a new west entrance to the building. The architect is Leonard  Colchamiro Architects and Planners of Park Slope in Brooklyn.  ''We're getting interest from tenants who want executive-style space but don't want to spend $45 a square foot,'' said Mr. Blumenfeld, whose family-owned company, Blumenfeld Development Group, owns and operates two million square feet of industrial, quasi-industrial and office space on Long Island.  Besides the British Airways lease, the only other signed lease is with the Sanus Corporation, a division of the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, for 15,000 square feet. Sanus does processing work for health-maintenance organizations.  In other Queens locations, office development has occurred sporadically, usually in urbanized locations rather than a campus setting. Normally, it is close to mass transportation, with interior or deck parking. In College Point, a cluster of new buildings has come on the market close to the Whitestone Expressway.  When the Pfohl family started building the 10-story, 200,000-square-foot Hunters Point Plaza on family-owned land at Jackson Avenue and 21st Street in Long Island City, an office building in the area was considered novel. Most companies in the vicinity are in manufacturing businesses, as are the Pfohls, who own Plaxall Inc., a plastics company on 46th Avenue.  Hunters Point Plaza opened late last year and is about 60 percent leased, said Dick Catalano of Cross & Brown, the broker. The largest tenant, with 75,000 square feet of space, is the State Department of Transportation. There is parking for 150 cars.  Now Citicorp is bringing offices to Long Island City in a big way. Its 1.25-million-square-foot facility will rise at Jackson Avenue and 23d Street, with Skidmore Owings & Merrill as the architect and the Turner Construction Company as the contractor. There will be a 46-story tower connected with a four-story element, all within a large, landscaped site.  Citicorp is building a 350-foot underground pedestrian link between the Court Square subway station of the G line and the 23d Street and Ely Avenue station of the E and F lines, to be completed late next year. There will also be an 800-car garage on the site of a former jail behind the courthouse on Court Square. Citicorp has not as yet given any indication as to how the space in the office building will be utilized.  Also near a subway stop is the land in Kew Gardens at Queens Boulevard and Union Turnpike, where the Kew Gardens Hospital once stood. A partnership of Sidney Esikoff and Arthur Geller is planning a 12-store, mixed-use building with 234,000 square feet of offices, 49,000 square feet of retail space and 25,000 square feet of community facilities. A city land-use review is still under way.  IN downtown Jamaica, new office space is on the market through Sholom & Zuckerbrot in Gertz Office and Retail Plaza, the reconstruction of the former Gertz department store by the Gertz family and Matt Russo. Space is offered at $12 a square foot with a ''full tenant work order,'' said Gail Roseman, the broker. There are two floors of 60,000 square feet each.  Smaller office centers are scattered along Queens Boulevard in Rego Park, Forest Hills and Kew Gardens, and along the Whitestone Expressway in College Point, where six smaller office buildings totaling about 300,000 square feet have been built over the last five years.  But on the whole, there is what Joshua Muss, a Queens developer, termed ''a shortage of product.'' As in most suburban construction, office users tend to lease space only after it has been built, not before. However, the process of getting a building produced is so lengthy and so uncertain - unless the interest of a major user drives city officials to accelerate the approval process - that development is not too promising an undertaking.  This is perhaps the most remarkable aspect of the Bulova Corporate Center. A developer bought the site on speculation and succeeded in attracting a major user to it before construction had begun.  In the 1980's in New York City, where the ability to build in timely fashion is so uncertain, the Blumenfeld venture is a departure.  Drawing of renovated entry at Bulova Corporate Center, Jackson Heights, Queens; map of Queens area showing location of Bulova Corporate Center 
