19810917
WASHINGTON, Sept. 16— House Democratic leaders offered what they described as ''amnesty'' today to party members who helped President Reagan gain his tax and budget victories this summer, but they warned that those who consistently ''connive'' with Republicans would not have important committee assignments renewed.  The Democrats, meeting for the first time since Congress passed Mr. Rea gan's tax and budget cuts, stopped sho rt of formally disciplining members who broke with the party . Instead, in a gesture addressed primarily to the nearly 50 Southern conservatives who backed the Reagan economic measures, the lead ers invited all who had left the party fold to regroup under a new se nse of unity. ''We welcome the sinners back,'' said Representati ve Jim Wright of Texas, the majority leader.  In addition, they agreed that leadership and choice committee positions would be delegated only to those who backed the party's positions on key issues.  Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. of Massachusetts, the House Speaker, characterized the two-hour, closed session of the House Democratic Caucus as a ''meeting of understanding'' and said the Democrats would seek to shift current attention away from their own disunity and toward such economic issues as inflation, unemployment and high interest rates. Rewards and Punishment  The party leaders drew a distinction between punishing Democrats who voted for the Reagan economic package and rewarding them by renewing their committee assignments. ''We do not seek to punish anybody,'' said Mr. Wright. ''But there are rewards. You don't take a thing away, but you don't necessarily renew it, either.''  The Democratic leadership also distinguished between party members who occasionally vote with the Republicans and those who do so repeatedly. ''We won't punish any such person,'' Mr. Wright explained, ''but we won't reward anyone who consistently connives with the opposition and seeks to defeat the position of his own party.''  Two of the principal party dissenters, Representatives Phil Gramm and Kent Hance, both of Texas, participated in Republican strategy sessions in the budget and tax battles. Both attended the meeting today, but neither spoke.  Mr. Gramm, who helped shepherd the Reagan budget through the Budget Committee, said afterward that he was ''unrepentant.'' He added that today's stern warnings would not dissuade him from supporting the Reagan economic initiatives. Motives Behind Actions  ''I took the positions I did because I thought they were in the interest of this country,'' he said. Mr. Hance, who worked with the Administrat ion on the tax-cut bill, said he did n ot expect to lose his seat on the Ways and Means Committee. '' They had some feelings bottled up about me and Gramm, and it was go od for them to get those feelings out,'' he said.  The Democrats expect to enforce party discipline by setting aside a number of votes each session and designating them as important policy votes. Those votes will help the leadership determine whether party members should retain their prestigious committee assignments in the next Congress.  In granting ''amnesty'' to the conservative Southern Democrats who have become known as the ''boll weevils,'' the Democratic leadership is trying to heal the wounds of the fractious budget and tax fights and offer party dissidents a new start. ''Nobody is going to be Joan of Arc out there unless he lights his own torch,'' said Mr. Wright.  The meeting was scheduled by Representative Gillis W. Long of Louisiana, chairman of the Democratic Caucus, after 50 members petitioned for a disciplinary session. Though a group of Democrats led by Representative Toby Moffett of Connecticut have suggested punitive action against the defectors, the group settled for a warning. 
