20041117
NEARING Thanksgiving, as most pastry chefs ponder the annual what-to-do-with-a-pumpkin quandary and wax nostalgic about pies past, Pichet Ong, the pastry chef at Spice Market and 66, contemplates kabocha squash.  ''We never made the typical American meal with turkey and pumpkin pie when I was growing up,'' Mr. Ong explained. He stood in the white-tiled subterranean prep kitchen of Spice Market, on West 13th Street, a crate of squat blue-green kabocha squash on the work table in front of us. ''Chinese people don't really eat turkey. We eat chickens and ducks. And we don't eat pumpkin, or pie. For dessert my mother would always make a sweet kabocha squash soup with coconut milk and tapioca.''  Mr. Ong, who is Chinese but was raised in Thailand and Singapore, had his first Thanksgiving dinner at the age of 14, when his family moved to New York.  ''Kabocha is a staple in Asian cuisine,'' he continued. ''You can fry it as tempura, braise it with soy sauce, bake it in a casserole with pork belly, steam it with chicken stock, cube it and add it to sweet and savory soups.''  If you're a pastry chef working in New York, you can also use it in an Asian-fusion version of the holiday's ubiquitous pie. In Mr. Ong's kitchen, that means a dense, spicy cheesecakelike confection with a lime-scented graham cracker crust, served with ginger butterscotch sauce.  ''Kabocha is similar to pumpkin but I prefer it in desserts,'' he said. ''The flesh is softer, more like custard, and has a mellow flavor. It also has a better color. It's brighter orange when cooked, not as brown.''  As Mr. Ong said this, he put a squash to steam in a colander set over boiling water. After an hour the squash's leathery skin began to collapse, and the flesh emerged pudding-tender. This steaming technique, indeed the whole recipe, would also work with other winter squashes, like butternut, and with compact, tight-fleshed pumpkin, like sugar pumpkins and cheese pumpkins. Avoid the jack-o'-lantern behemoths at all costs: they are too watery for pie.  ''You know in French restaurants they would roast the squash to concentrate the flavor, but Asians love to steam,'' Mr. Ong said. ''We use both French and Asian techniques here. And I do believe in roasting for some purposes, but if you want a creamy, silky, soft texture, steaming is a great technique.''  While the squash was steaming, he mixed together the pie crust, using his whole palm to smack a sandy mix of graham cracker crumbs, walnuts, spices and lots of lime zest into a pie dish. As it baked, the scents of citrus and cinnamon wafted through the kitchen, mingling with the piercing odors of nam pla, lemon grass and coriander, which a nearby cook was mixing into a dipping sauce for lobster summer rolls.  ''A crumb crust is better here than a regular pastry crust because it's more crisp,'' Mr. Ong said as he set the crust on a cooling rack. ''It's got to be a contrast to the smooth filling. That's also why I use the lime. It needs some acid because the filling is very rich. You could also use lemon if you like. That might even make the crust more adaptable for other fillings, like cheesecake or cream pie.''  All of these musings tumbled forth as Mr. Ong darted frenetically around the pastry station, getting the ingredients ready for two fillings. Adding the filling to the crust while it's still hot and baking it immediately also helps it stay crisp. He swiftly unwrapped blocks of cream cheese that had been softening at room temperature, then tossed them into a food processor.  Using a plastic pint container, the kind usually packed with potato salad at a deli, Mr. Ong ''measured'' in the sugar.  ''That's two cups,'' he said, winking. Next went in the ground ginger, with an equally carefree measure, overflowing onto the worktable.  ''Most people think baking is just about scientifically careful measurements, but there are certain measures that can be a little loose. Like sugar and spices. A few grams more or less won't hurt anything.''  The squash ratio, however, had to be more exact, to balance the cream cheese and eggs. After plunging his bare hands into the still steaming flesh to remove the seeds (which those without asbestos hands should do after the squash has cooled), Mr. Ong unflinchingly scooped the squash into a bowl on the scale to weigh it. Then he plopped it directly into the food processor. While many chefs would have strained the squash first, Mr. Ong dispenses with that when he can get away with it.  ''You can do that if you steam the squash,'' he said. ''The fibers have absorbed enough water to become moist. It will mix right into the cream cheese.'' And so it did in about five pulses.  Within minutes the filling was in the crust, and the pie was in the oven. We drank water from more plastic deli containers (there were dozens lining the shelves), then started immediately on the ginger butterscotch sauce. It was almost lunchtime, and our spot in the kitchen was quickly being usurped by other cooks.  Sucking in his stomach to take up as little room as possible, Mr. Ong pressed himself into the stove, staking claim to a burner, where he slowly melted the brown sugar, coins of fresh ginger, spices and a vanilla bean over a low flame. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
