19810827
-------------------------------------------------------------------- Phyllis Theroux is the author of ''Peripheral Visions,'' to be published in January by William R. Morrow. By PHYLLIS THEROUX  THE other day my youngest son and I had a talk about responsibility. He had lost his summer-school homework assignment on his newspaper route. I told him he had to go back and find it. He said he would not. I said that if he did not finish his homework he would have to go to bed early. He then said that school was dumb and proceeded - with lots of fists in the air and thrashing around on the sofa cushions - to denounce the entire structure of society as he knows it.  This is the usual dialogue that takes place around this house when backsliding is in progress and there is nowhere to go but up. I then took a different tack, which was to change the subject. Picking up the inside section of the afternoon newspaper I read his horoscope out loud.  ''Look what it says here,'' I reported brightly. '' 'Tomorrow your aspirations are fulfilled if you realize that the sky is the limit.' ''  My son did not know what ''aspirations'' meant. ''That means,'' I said, ''that what you hope will happen happens.'' ''You mean,'' he said, ''like finding my homework and reading a book for a report?'' ''If that's what you're hoping for.'' ''Well, I'm not!'' He screwed up his face and said, ''I'd rather not go to school at all.'' ''Well,'' I said, ''if you had done a little better this spring, you wouldn't have to go to summer school now. It's all part of being responsible.''  This was, from every point of view, including mine, a hateful conversation and no sooner had the word ''responsible'' issued from my didactic lips than he went upstairs angrily - to sleep the sleep of the spoiled, the coddled, the beloved youngest child whose charm has always melted my firmest resolves.  Downstairs, I picked up Emerson. ''God doth not make his work manifest through cowards.'' I always try to read Emerson in crucial moments to forestall any jumps off the second-story deck in despair.  Fifteen minutes later there was a knock on the door. A head poked around the corner. ''I found my homework assignment for the book report -in my jeans,'' he said.  I smiled as unoffensively as I could and took him on my lap. (Is life always squaring up to do a book report on a book one hasn't read?) ''Wonderful,'' I said. ''Do you want any help?''  ''Uh uh,'' he answered and he then proceeded to whip through a 15-page book with 12 full-page illustrations about a dog and a bone - not exactly ''Ivanhoe,'' but it was, technically, a book. Then, sliding off my lap, he polished off three sentences for his report on a piece of paper and settled in for a little philosophical chat.  ''You know,'' I said, ''growing up is sort of like a ladder: the more responsibility you take the more freedom you have, but each rung you climb has to include both of those things.''  This was pretty abstract stuff. I told him an illustrative story about my going away to college when I was 18 and realizing, as I was walking down Fifth Avenue in New York, that I could do anything I wanted: eat four banana splits, throw a rock through a window, anything. My parents and babysitters couldn't stop me because they were 3,000 miles away.  ''But you know what?'' I said, ''I didn't do any of those things, even though I was free to do them.'' My son thought briefly about this. ''Yeah,'' he conceded, ''but you're a girl.'' ''It's all the same,'' I said. ''Everybody has to climb the same ladder.'' ''I think my ladder is broken,'' he sighed. ''But think how much time you waste fighting off doing what you're supposed to do,'' I argued. ''Think how much extra time you'd have to look around at things if you didn't spend so much energy and time avoiding what you had to do before you were free to do what you wanted.''  ''Yeah,'' he said, his imagination beginning to take fire. ''Like looking into the mirror to see how my eyes dilate.'' ''Right,'' I agreed, ''or just lying on your stomach, peering into the grass. You see all these incredible bugs, for instance, no bigger than freckles, but so beautifully designed and marked. Sometimes I feel just like God, or at least the only person who will ever fully appreciate that bug in its entire lifetime.''  ''You shouldn't ever pretend you're God,'' warned my son. ''He might get mad.'' I agreed with him. My son is a natural Biblical source, although he doesn't know the ''tree of knowledge'' from a copper beech. ''Hey,'' he said, his mind jogged anew. ''Who made God? That's always been one of my questions.'' Ten years of theological study wound up as a single hair pushed quickly through the eye of a needle. ''Nobody,'' I answered. ''Or God wouldn't be God.''  ''That's right,'' he agreed, dropping the subject. ''But here's another question - where does space end?'' I never went to school for that one. I told him I did not know but I guessed that space didn't end exactly. ''That's probably the answer,'' he said, ''because if space had an ending, then something else would have to start at the ending.'' My mind was beginning to get stretch marks. I told him it was now past 10 o'clock and he ought to go to bed. Lying on his pillow as bright eyed as a junior philosopher playing with the Square of Contradiction, he smiled contentedly.  ''I'm glad I did my book report,'' he acknowledged. ''I think you've made some steps in repairing your ladder,'' I said. ''Anyway,'' he said, ''tomorrow is my lucky day.'' ''It is?'' I asked. ''Why?'' ''Because of my horoscope. Remember? 'The sky's the limit.' '' And with that he shoved one fist into the air with a V for victory and was off to sleep.  Later that evening I checked to make sure that he was fast asleep. He lay, curled on one side, his V-for-victory arm thrust out over his pillow into space, as if reaching for something he would grasp the next day.  Someday I knew there would come a time when his questions would be too hard for me to answer. One day I would not be metaphysician or scientist enough to satisfy his mind. But, despite my own unanswered questions about life, looking at that perfectly chiseled, trusting face was an education in itself.  ''Bethink you,'' wrote Sir Charles Sherrington, the famous mentor of the cosmologist Sir John Eccles, ''that perhaps in knowing me you do but know ... the tool of a Hand too large for your sight as now to compass.''  ''Try then, '' he wrote, ''to teach your sight to grow.'' 
