19951006
 Tooning In: No Longer Bit Players, Animators Draw Fame As Hollywood Stars --- They Command Big Salaries And Get Celebrity Perks In Wake of Disney Hits --- A Job Offer at the Airport   By By Thomas R. King and Lisa Bannon, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 6, 1995  Even Mr. Sito thought that, at best, he might someday eke out a modest living. How wrong he was. This month, DreamWorks SKG lured the 39-year-old Mr. Sito from Walt Disney Co. to its new animation studio by nearly doubling his salary to about $182,000 a year, handing him a hefty signing bonus, and -- in a stunning coup for an animator -- promising him a piece of the profits of forthcoming features he works on, a perk usually reserved for big-name movie stars like Tom Hanks.  Studios are spinning their feet as fast as the Road Runner for one reason: the immense profits earned by Walt Disney. A cartoon renaissance that began with "The Little Mermaid" in 1989 has generated an estimated $4 billion in profit for Disney since then. "The Lion King," Disney's biggest animated hit, is alone expected to generate profits -- including merchandising -- that will reach nearly $1 billion. Now Disney's competitors are investing tens of millions of dollars to build animation businesses, including Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros., News Corp.'s Twentieth Century Fox and Turner Broadcasting System Inc.'s Turner Pictures, as well as DreamWorks, the new studio formed by Jeffrey Katzenberg, Steven Spielberg and David Geffen.  The animation studios are putting all their creativity to work as they raid their rivals and romance hot prospects. Pure gumption is in plentiful supply as well: Paul Berry, an animator currently working on Disney's coming "James and the Giant Peach," recently received a Federal Express delivery at home from rival Warner Bros. with a detailed -- and unsolicited -- employment contract inside. It promised a handsome raise to work with "Batman" director Tim Burton on a new project. A few days later, on an out-of-town trip, Mr. Berry received a message on his home answering machine in San Francisco requesting that he secretly meet Warner executives at the hip Triton Hotel there.   
