19820211
NAIROBI, Kenya, Feb. 10— The Organization of African Unity was told today at a special meeting here that it could no longer afford to maintain a peacekeeping force in Chad unless new emergency financial donations were forthcoming.  The secretary general of the organization, Edem Kodjo of Togo, said that it would cost $163 million to maintain troops in Chad over the next year. President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya, the current chairman of the O.A.U., appealed to the organization's members and to the international community at large for fresh funds for the support of the troops from Nigeria, Senegal and Zaire that are now in Chad. The strength of the force is estimated at 3,000.  ''It is my sincere hope that response to the appeals will be forthcoming soon,'' the 57-year-old Mr. Moi said in his speech this evening at the Kenyatta Conference Center. He said that Zimbabwe had offered some financial assistance and that Libya, which withdrew its troops from Chad last year at the request of the Chadian President, Goukouni Oueddei, had offered transportation assistance for O.A.U. forces.  The secretary general's report came amid deepening worry among African leaders gathered here over the future of the O.A.U. force in Chad. The United States and France are reported to have contributed about $12 million each for the upkeep of the force, but it is unclear whether they will give any more funds. Political Difficulties Growing  Moreover, Mr. Kodjo said, the political situation in Chad appears to be deteriorating. President Goukouni's regime, which is fighting guerrilla forces commanded by his former Defense Minister, Hissen Habre, has ''suffered and continues to suffer some military reverses in the hostilities,'' he said.  Mr. Kodjo referred to ''persistent'' differences of view between President Goukouni's Government and the 50-nation African organization over the role of the peacekeeping force in Chad. ''The Chad Government demanded that the O.A.U. force go into combat against internal dissident elements of Chad,'' Mr. Kodjo said, referring to the forces thatsupport Mr. Habre.  President Goukouni, who arrived in Nairobi this afternoon, has said he wanted the peaekeeping force to help him defeat Mr. Habre's forces.  Mr. Kodjo said in his report, however, that ''in spite of the reserve demonstrated by the Chad Government, there seems to be an understanding by both parties on the noncombat role of the force.'' 
