19810824
The Houston Oilers are running out of quarterbacks. Already set back by the unexpected retirement of Kenny Stabler, the Oilers got more bad news Saturday night when the new No.1 quarterback, Gifford Nielsen, had to leave an exhibition game at Tampa, Fla., during the first period with a bruised right shoulder after throwing only four passes and completing two for 28 yards.  John Reaves, the journeyman attempting a comeback, came on and hit 21 of 36 passes for 236 yards, including a 37-yard scoring pass to the tight end Mike Barber. But it wasn't enough.  The Tampa Bay Buccaneers, with Doug Williams throwing touchdown passes of 5 yards to Jimmie Giles and 24 yards to Kevin House, and the rookie quarterback Mike Ford diving in for a 1-yard score in the closing minutes, beat the Oilers, 27-17.  In other games, Miami spotted Detroit a 21-7 halftime lead before rallying to defeat the Lions, 31-27, at Pontiac, Mich. The Dolphins' early points came on Don Strock's 2-yard pass to Bruce Hardy. Then David Woodley took over. He started the Dolphins' comeback by passing 35 yards to Tommy Vigorito for a touchdown and completed it by sweeping round right end for a 1-yard score 12 seconds from the final gun. Andra Franklin had the other Miami touchdown, also on a 1-yard run.  Like Nielsen, David Humm has spent his entire National Football League career (six years) as a reserve. Unlike Nielsen, Humm is likely to remain one, unless something happens to Buffalo's No.1 quarterback, Joe Ferguson. But Humm showed against Cleveland that he has something to offer, throwing fourth-quarter touchdown passes on plays covering 55 yards to Byron Franklin and 19 yards to Roland Hooks as Buffalo beat the Browns, 31-20, at Cleveland. Redskins Take 3d in Row  The Redskins won their third exhibition game, 13-7, over the Colts at Baltimore. Mike Nelms of Washington, his 59-yard punt return wiped out by a penalty, brought another one back 54 yards midway in the third period.  Jim Zorn of Seattle tried one pass too many. Eric Wright, a rookie cornerback for the 49ers, run an interception back 48 yards for the tiebreaking touchdown with eight seconds to play for a 24-17 triumph over the Seahawks at San Francisco.  At Irving, Tex., Danny White threw two touchdown passes in the fourth quarter, to Ron Springs and Butch Johnson, to give Dallas a 24-14 victory over Pittsburgh. The Steelers led, 14-10, going into the final quarter, helped by Cliff Stoudt's 25-yard touchdown pass to Sidney Thornton, a running back. White completed 21 of 39 passes for 382 yards.  Lee Nelson, a safety, ran 7 yards with a fumble for a touchdown, and Ottis Anderson ran 6 yards for another to lead the St. Louis Cardinals past the Chiefs, 16-3, at Kansas City. 
