19820122
THE Super Bowl is getting to be more than just the battle of the best of the professional football teams and the final test of patience of Sunday's football widows. It has also become a showcase for television advertising campaigns to make their debut. With an audience of 100 million people, largely male and often upscale, why not?  The advertising plans of the Subaru car and Shearson/American Express have already been reported here. Today, it's the Bendix Corporation's turn. Bendix will use the Super Bowl on Sunday to premiere its first corporate campaign in about three years and its first ever on television.  The company, the 87th largest in Fortune magazine's ranking of the leading 500 American industrial concerns, has been taken into the medium by Brouillard Communications. Brouillard is the specialist unit of the J. Walter Thompson Company, which replaced D'Arcy-MacManus & Masius, 37 years on the job.  What an auspicious debut it will be. The ads will have the socalled new wave look, except that they will be done by Robert Abel, a California director and not a Briton.  Cliff Robertson, the actor, will be spokesman for the alltelevision, $5 million communications effort. The theme is ''Bendix - The Power of Ingenuity.''  ''We didn't want to say 'high tech' because everyone is, but we want to come off as that,'' said Joseph Brouillard, president, who was in his office with a Bendix contingent led by Alonzo L. McDonald, the company's president.  The first of the campaign's three spots, which will appear not only during the game on the CBS-TV Network but also on a pregame show, couldn't be more high tech. It is, in fact, the first American commercial shot with a new camera called Introvision. According to Cynthia J. Perry, a 29-year-old vice president and management supervisor (the youngest management supervisor in the business, Mr. Brouillard said), it is a ''sophisticated front projection system.''  There are few consumer products represented among the corporation's $4.43 billion in sales in the last fiscal year, and the commercial reflects this. As an actor moves from a large porthole overlooking Earth, down a corridor adorned with Bendix oxygen sensors amid the flashing bolts of a laser cutting metal, a plane comes in for a landing overhead. All is done with the bright colors of the new European look.  The other two commercials, not in the can yet, will deal with Bendix's MLS Landing System, which, said William V. Janey, corporate director of publications and advertising, ''will demonstrate the power of ingenuity.'' Another commercial will discuss a process used in the manufacture of the Fram filter.  They will be seen on weekend sports programming on all three commercial networks and also on morning and nighttime news shows. During the first eight-week wave of the campaign, Bendix will show 83 commercials. The second wave is scheduled to begin in early May. None of the commercials is expected to sell a product. Rather they ar e intended to win people's hearts and minds. ''Other business executives are our primary audience,'' Mr. Mc Donald said. ''They will be approving future purchases.'' Mr. Brouillard added: ''The business community is the peer group. Th ey are the ones that people go to asking 'What kind of a company isBe ndix?' It's the old locker-room syndrome.'' Of course, Bendix is also interested in impressing the usual audiences for corporate advertising - employees, factory communities, potential employees and the financial community.  But only the business types have been subjected to a research project, which was conducted by Yankelovich, Skelly & White. The project explored what executives knew and felt about Bendix. The results will be used as a benchmark to gauge the effectiveness of the campaign.  The last advertising from D'Arcy was what the Bendix troops refer to as the ''We Speak'' campaign. It was used to promote the company's involvement in innovation, quality and technology.  Management did not think it was hitting the mark. So, having screened eight to 10 agencies in autumn 1980, Bendix invited four to develop suggested creative approaches (without compensation). They were N.W. Ayer; Doremus & Company; Grey Advertising, and Wells, Rich, Greene.  They presented their approaches in the spring without any idea of what Bendix's corporate spending plans were. ''Bells didn't go off, '' Mr. Haney said. ''Nothing hit us just right.'' So the Brouillard team was called in and it came up with five different treatments, which were compared with the offerings from the other four shops. One of the Brouillard efforts apparently rang a bell with the Bendix selection group led by William M. Agee, chairman and chief executive.  Because the conversation had been on corporate image, Mr. McDonald was asked in parting if the much publicized relationship between Mr. Agee and Mary E. Cunningham, his former assistant, had any effect on the company's stock price.  ''Nobody buys Bendix by impulse,'' he said. ''We sell only to professionals.''  Illustrations: Photo of Cliff Robertson 
