20031109
 Power 30: Those Who Influence the Markets Most   The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 10, 2003  Some investors are put off simply by the high price of Berkshire's Class A shares on the New York Stock Exchange, which trade for $80,000 each as of Friday's close. (Berkshire's Class B shares, each worth 1/30 of a Class A share, are more affordable at $2,668.) But that's more a reflection of Mr. [Warren Buffett]'s unwillingness to split the stock than an expensive valuation. Berkshire's shares look reasonably priced at about 22 times projected 2003 earnings of $3,500 a share, or 19 times expected 2004 earnings of $4,000 a share. Berkshire's price/book ratio also looks reasonable at 1.7. Berkshire's book value, moreover, understates the value of certain of its businesses -- such as Geico, one of the country's best-run auto insurers -- that are worth far more than their carrying value, based on historical cost, on Berkshire's balance sheet.  What makes him so influential: Mr. [Billy Beane], 41, has been drawing attention for showing how to be a great "value" investor -- never mind that his portfolio consists of baseball players. The A's aren't champions, but despite a woefully low budget, Mr. Beane has made them perennial contenders by cannily identifying quality players whom other managers have found wanting, signing them cheap and letting them excel. His tactics are recounted in [Michael Lewis]'s 2003 book "Moneyball," and he became something of a hero to value-stock managers. (Still, Mr. Beane's star isn't quite as bright as it was before the World Series, which the A's again couldn't reach. Instead, the upstart Florida Marlins won it, following their own blueprint.)  What makes him so influential: "I get a picture of myself," said Mr. O'[Neal] in a speech this past spring, " . . . prowling around the dungeons of Merrill Lynch, torturing costs out of the system, dragging a leg: 'Bring me more costs! Bring me more!' " Mr. O'Neal, 52, was zinging the press coverage he's gotten since becoming CEO of the U.S. biggest brokerage firm last December and then chairman in April. But prowl he has: Budgetary and personnel cuts have been quick and deep. He's replaced nearly all of the firm's management committee members. And he's redefining Merrill by focusing on its richest clients while serving others with a call center rather than with individual brokers. The Street will watch closely as Mr. O'Neal tries to make a formidable competitor even more so.   
