19820120
SPENCER, Okla., Jan. 19— An explosion tore through the kitchen of an elementary school today, raining bricks, glass and metal on children eating lunch in the cafeteria. The police said that five children and one teacher were killed and 35 children were injured.  There was confusion outside the one-story Star Elementary School as screaming children mingled with rescue workers and ambulance attendants. Frantic parents, not knowing whether their children were among the victims, rushed to the scene in this suburb northeast of Oklahoma City.  Ed Forman. a spokesman for the Midwest City Police Department, said late today that all 270 of the school's pupils had been accounted for.  Although officials said they had not determined the cause of the accident, Florence Hardy, a dishwasher in the kitchen, said she was certain that a water heater had exploded. Heard a 'Swoosh and a Bang'  She said she was in the kitchen when she heard a ''swoosh and a bang'' that ''knocked everybody on the floor.'' Phil Cooksey, a spokesman for the Oklahoma City Fire Department, which sent equipment to the scene, also indicated that the blast was caused by a water heater. He said a cook had turned on a faucet and got only steam, and that the explosion occurred just after she left to report the situation.  Tom Payzant, superintendent of Oklahoma City schools, said at a news conference that a school maintenance worker had been called to fix the heater before classes began today.  The Star school is part of the Oklahoma City School District. Victims Are Identified  Mr. Forman identified the dead children as Paul C. Motes, 7 years old; Latasha M. Brown, 8; Marlow T. Wallace, 9; Gira M. Hiter, 10, and Kareem R. Manora, 8. The teacher was identified as Dinnah Manroe, 34. He said the injured ranged in age from kindergarten to the fourth grade. One child, who was not identified, remained in intensive care at a local hospital late today.  Mr. Forman said that 50 to 60 children were in the cafeteria when the blast ripped through the kitchen wall. The authorities believe that all those killed in the accident were seated at a table of children waiting to go out to the playground. ''I heard this explosion, then I heard all these bells and I ran outside,'' said Christy Poe, a 9-year-old fourth-grader, who was outside the principal's office on the opposite side of the school from the cafeteria. Parents Find Daughter Safe  Arthur Pollard said his 6-year-old daughter, Goldie, told him that she had just left the cafeteria for the playground when she heard a loud bang.  ''She said the roof of the cafeteria lifted straight up and came back down,'' Mr. Pollard said. ''She was crying when my wife found her outside in a group with her teacher and the rest of the class.''  Holly Chase, 8, said she had just finished eating lunch and was waiting for permission to leave for the playground when the explosion occurred.  ''I ducked my head like they told me to during a tornado and it missed me -the glass,'' she said. Teacher Leads Pupils Out  ''A teacher came by and helped me and the other kids out. There were kids running and screaming,'' she said. She said they were led outside to wait for their parents.  Susan Brown, Holly's mother, ran three miles to the school after her mother-in-law called her upon hearing about the explosion. Ambulances rushed to the scene and helicopters landed in the parking lot of a store across the street to airlift the more seriously injured to hospitals.  Jeff Gauthier, head of the Amcare ambulance service, said the body of one child was removed as soon as rescuers reached the scene. He said five other bodies were found in the rubble.  Illustrations: map of Oklahoma photo of firefighter searching for victims in rubble photo of injured student 
