19810308
SHADOW WORK By Ivan Illich. 152 pp. Boston: Marion Boyars. Cloth, $15. Paper, $5.95.  THIS collection of recent essays by Ivan Illich has all the qualities one has come to expect from this author. They are brilliant, intensely and cogently argued, full of erudition, idiosyncratic, simultaneously irritating and inspiring. The same qualities have marked Mr. Illich's career as a roving critic of modern society and its institutions, first of the Roman Catholic Church, then of the educational and medical establishments. It is impossible to agree completely with Mr. Illich. It is also impossible to ignore him.  One of Mr. Illich's most interesting qualities is the way he creatively frustrates his followers' expectations. He first became known in the 1960's as an internal critic of the Catholic Church, especially of its policies in Latin America, and attracted a wide and enthusiastic following of young clergy - only to veer sharply away from all ecclesiastical and theological topics a few years later. In the late 1960's and early 1970's, his think tank in Cuernavaca drew radicals from as far away as Toronto and Tierra del Fuego -most of whom became puzzled and frustrated by his consistent refusal to endorse their doctrines or to share their admiration for Cuba, China or other socialist Zions. More recently, particularly in Europe, he has been the hero of devotees of ecological salvation movements; they will be less than enthusiastic about what he has to say here on ''ecological Stalinism.'' Mr. Illich is a free spirit who escapes every attempt to bottle him ideologically. He is also a spirit of negation, invariably disappointing those in quest of something to affirm.  This little book contains five essays, along with a lengthy (but infuriatingly elliptical) bibliographical appendix. The first essay, ''The Three Dimensions of Public Choice,'' was delivered as a lecture at a conference of development economists in Colombo, Sri Lanka, in 1979. (For a man who recommends the bicycle as the most rational vehicle of transportation, Mr. Illich must use more jet fuel than just about any other itinerant intellectual.) That essay, which sets the agenda for the rest of the book, is followed by three historical vignettes dealing with the origins of Western modernity. The last essay, ''Shadow Work,'' gives the title to the collection.  Mr. Illich suggests that there are three types of choices facing contemporary societies. The first are choices that commonly divide the ''right'' from the ''left'' - choices about issues of social hierarchy, political power and control over the means of production. The second type deals with the question of choosing ''hard'' or ''soft'' technologies. The third set of choices to be made concern what Mr. Illich calls ''commodity values'' and ''vernacular values.'' Modernity has fostered values and created institutions that identify the satisfaction of human needs with the allocation of scarce resources and services, administered by capitalists, bureaucrats or professionals. Against this, Mr. Illich posits the values of the vernacular, a Latin derivative meaning whatever is ''homebred, homespun, homegrown, homemade.'' Mr. Illich believes that the choices between ''right'' and ''left'' or between ''hard'' and ''soft'' technologies cannot be meaningful unless they are accompanied by a revival of ''vernacular'' values and institutions. This entails a reinterpretation of work in terms of what people can do for themselves rather than in terms of what they can contribute to an industrial machine that decides what they ought or ought not to have, by way of either the market or of political mechanisms. Wage labor and coercive consumption are the twin evils from this perspective.  Mr. Illich uses the term ''vernacular'' deliberately. In its common usage, of course, it refers to language. In ''Vernacular Values,'' probably the most original essay in this volume, Mr. Illich discusses the role of a Spanish grammarian, Elio Antonio de Nebrija, who in 1492 presented to Queen Isabella a new grammar of the Castillian language, with the express purpose of providing her with a new instrument of imperial domination. Mr. Illich interprets Nebrija as a forerunner of the modern age, in which the business of government (and, later on, the market) is expropriation - taking away from people what they have created for themselves (in this case, ordinary speech) and forcing them to take it back in a transformed version (the standardized language taught by formal educators). The expropriation of language foreshadowed all later expropriations, each of which drove people further in the direction of helplessness and dependence.  ''Shadow work,'' the subject of Mr. Illich's final essay, is the unpaid labor that accompanies and is made necessary, according to Mr. Illich, by the advent of wage labor in the modern industrial system. Housework done by women is the paradigm of shadow work, but shadow work also includes all activities people are forced to do without pay for the economic good of an industrialized society - the ''labor'' of shopping, of studying for exams, of commuting between home and job, the paperwork needed to satisfy the requirements of sundry bureaucracies, even the kind of family activities in which parents act as agents of the educational system. Even more than wage labor, shadow work alienates people from themselves and each other, and prevents them from shaping their own lives. Mr. Illich argues that the recovery of the vernacular, the construction of modern versions of subsistence economy, would reduce shadow work, and, unlike earlier subsistence economies, a modern version could use technology to foster richer and more independent lives.  One does not have to agree with all of Mr. Illich's historical and sociological interpretations to be stimulated by this book. Its weaknesses are those of his earlier books. Modernity, with the exception of some technological innovations, appears here in a consistently negative light. It expropriates, alienates, brings into servitude. Mr. Illich seems incapable of perceiving the liberating and humanizing effects of modernity. As before, his positive images are those of pre-modern communities - the medieval household or the Mexican village - or artificial contemporary reconstructions of these. Most important, Mr. Illich once again avoids taking a position on those questions that concern his first category of choices - questions of social, economic and political macro-organization. This is a significant omission. Only by asking the question of how a modern society is to be organized in its macro-structures does one have any chance of finding answers to the questions that concern Mr. Illich - in his terms, the questions of how a recovery of the vernacular, at least in some areas of life, may be politically practicable.  Illustrations: drawing 
