20000709
 TV: How's This for Trashy Entertainment? --- The British Invasion of Reality TV Continues in `Junkyard Wars'; Making Airplanes From Scrap   By By Barbara D. Phillips, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 10, 2000  Judging by last week's "Power Pullers" episode, "Scrapheap Challenge" was still working out some kinks in its first season. Host Robert Llewellyn was every bit as irritating as Jeff Probst, that guy on "Survivor." And it was as hard to tell the teams apart as it sometimes still is to grasp the contestants' less-than-Oxonian pronunciation and strictly British vocabulary. But by season two (and last week's second episode), the show had come up with a winning format: Mr. Llewellyn (best known to Americans from his role as Kryton in the Britcom "Red Dwarf") now appears with the series' telegenic producer, Cathy Rogers. Each team is now made up of three friends, colleagues or relatives plus one team expert, and the hosts are joined by a special guest and the episode's judge. The team that makes it through the first rounds and semis and wins the finals gets a trophy and the satisfaction of a job well done.  This Wednesday, the episodes feature cannons (9-10 p.m. EDT) and amphibious vehicles (10-11 p.m. EDT). In the first, Brothers in Arms -- three lushly mustachioed siblings from Northern Ireland who are all army officers (one is a veteran of last week's "Power Pullers" challenge) -- are teamed with a ballistics expert at the Royal Military College. They compete against the Chemical Brothers, industrial chemists at a pigments factory in Grimsby, and their expert, a historical re-enactor, musketeer and black-powder fan. Using real explosive charges and scrapyard finds, each team builds a cannon and has three shots to come closest to the bull's-eye of a target 500 feet away. The Brothers in Arms go high-tech, using cordite. The Chemical Brothers choose black powder. Along the way, one of the teams will find a use for bed knobs, but not for broomsticks. The special guest is pyrotechnician Stephen Miller, and the judge is Major David Reid, who when counting down omits the number five -- too close in sound to "fire."   
