19811110
Fashions in food can be as fickle as those in clothes or manners, and during the last five years New Yorkers' preferences for fancy food have undergone major changes. Italian imports are acquiring the cachet formerly accorded only to French labels; fresh, bulk products now have more appeal than packaged goods, no matter how elaborate the wrapping, and consumers have become far more adventurous eaters.  Celebrating the fifth birthday of the Cellar at Macy's, Stephen Fass, the vice president in charge of the vast and varied, wood and tile Marketplace, described some of the more dramatic changes that had taken place since that innovative basement department was opened.  ''Five years ago, any fancy food department was made up mostly of packaged goods - cans, bottles, boxes and jars, holding not only jams, honeys, vinegar and oil, but all sorts of canned soups, vegetables, cooked dishes like stews and even fish and game. Today's customers want fresh food that has a live look.  ''We still have the preserves, honeys, pickles, oils and vinegars,'' he said, ''but only a few soups and vegetables and it is even questionable how long we will continue with those.'' Chocolate in Future  Although pasta is not actually made at Macy's, the fettucine and tortellini purchased from Pasta & Cheese have a homemade look. Croissants, brioches and breads are baked right in the department, and before long a Godiva shop will be opened in which chocolates will be made.  Perhaps the most unusual section in the Marketplace when it opened was the area displaying exotic, showcase fruits and vegetables, at prices equal to or above those at the most expensive greengrocers in the city. Expressing surprise at how much of that merchandise is actually sold, Mr. Fass said, ''Even if we lose money or just break even on the produce, it is worth having, because it gives the whole department validity.''  The increase in eaters who like to experiment makes it necessary to carry a wider range of merchandise, especially in the cheese cases. ''We carry 250 cheeses on our books,'' Mr. Fass said. ''Three years ago we had only two goat cheeses and four blue-veined cheeses. Now we have 30 goats and 20 or 22 blues and we sell them all.  ''Other trends that caught me by surprise included the interest in decaffeinated coffee, especially since the water-processed variety came on the market. And despite all we hear about diets and the dangers of sugar, our fastest-growing department is candy, and at all price levels. I just can't believe that people eat so much candy.''  A wider variety of pates, some made by Macy's and others purchased, and salads, are also gaining wide acceptance, as are expensive smoked salmon and fresh caviar. ''We sell very little pasteurized caviar, I'm happy to say,'' Mr. Fass continued, ''and we tend to hide it in the back of the refrigerator case. People prefer the fresh for special occasions and those who can't spend a lot of money buy the unpasteurized red salmon roe.''  Most surprising of all, perhaps, is the competition Italian food imports are giving French counterparts. ''French food still has status, of course,'' Mr. Fass said, ''but there are only so many things buyers can find in Paris and Provence. So we started looking in Italy and found wonderful cheeses, vinegars and oils.  ''It's still difficult to deal with the Italians because they don't understand our labeling laws and there is endless red tape involved in shipping things,'' he continued. ''We have all of our purchases gathered in Milan. From there, they are shipped to Geneva, and then to New York. It's easier, faster and cheaper than trying to deal with the Italian bureaucracy.'' A Success Repeated  Before the Cellar Marketplace was built in the basement, Macy's food department was on the eighth floor. George Kinzler, then the buyer, helped implement the new concept, following the plan created by Edward S. Finkelstein, then the new president of the store, and now chairman of R.H. Macy & Company. Having created a similar food and cookware department in Macy's San Francisco, when he was president of the California division, Mr. Finkelstein and Arthur Reiner, now chairman of Macy's New York, set about repeating their success in New York, adding a look-alike branch of the P.J. Clarke pub-restaurant.  Mr. Fass, formerly the food buyer at Bloomingdale's, said that the old Macy's food department had a mile-long wall of biscuits. ''We still sell a lot of those at Christmas,'' he said, ''but I can't understand why anyone would buy most of the English biscuits when many of the Belgian and French varieties are fresher, made with butter and are more carefully wrapped. Sometimes I wonder if anyone ever tastes them.'' 
