19820202
DETROIT, Feb. 1— Despite the continuing slump in car and truck sales, the General Motors Corporation today reported a small profit of $97 million for the fourth quarter of 1981 and $333 million for the entire year - a profit it attributed largely to cost-cutting.  G.M. is the only United States automobile manufacturer expected to report a profit for 1981. The nation's largest auto maker also announced a series of highlevel management changes, which were generally interpreted in the auto industry as an effort to move younger men into key positions.  In the most important of these shifts, Robert C. Stemple, who is 48 years old, was named general manager of the Chevrolet division, the company's largest unit but one that has been experiencing sales and earnings difficulties. He succeeds Robert D. Lund, 61, who was transferred to the corporate staff in charge of sales and marketing.  G.M.'s earnings in all of 1981, equal to $1.07 a share, represented a $1 billion improvement from 1980, when the company was $763 million in the red. That was the first full-year loss since 1921 for a company that for decades was one of the most profitable giants of American industry - until the long slump in car sales changed the auto industry. Early Retirements Possible Maryann Kel ler, an analyst of the auto industry for the brokerage firm of Paine Webber Mitchell Hutchins, said a number of early retirements w ere expected at General Motors as top management replaces olde r executives, oriented to the high-volume, easy-sell days of the p ast, with people more sensitive to current market problems and competition from imports.  Mr. Lund has been criticized within General Motors for the sluggish performance of the company's ''J'' models, introduced last year. Sales of these compact cars - the Chevrolet Cavalier, Pontiac J2000 and Cadillac Cimarron - have not met G.M.'s expectations. Some analysts have said high prices, set at the corporate level, were the major deterrent to sales of the ''J'' cars.  G.M.'s $97 million profit in the fourth quarter, equal to 31 cents a share, was up from $62 million, or 21 cents a share, in 1980's final quarter. The company earned $190 million in the first quarter of 1981 and $512 in the second, then lost $468 million in the third. Its fourth-quarter earnings came on sales of $15.64 billion, down from $16.2 billion a year before. Sales for all last year, however, totaled $62.79 billion, up from $57.73 billion in 1980, partly as a result of higher vehicle prices.  Besides the cost-cutting, which reduced operating losses to a pretax $138 million, General Motors attributed its overall 1981 profit to the good showing of two subsidiaries, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, which finances car purchases, and the General Motors Insurance Company, which sells auto insurance. They earned $348 million for the year.  In another action today, General Motors maintained its quarterly dividend of 60 cents a share, although the company said a reduction had been considered at its board meeting in New York. G.M. paid 60 cents in every quarter of 1981, making $2.40 a share for the whole year, down from 1980's $2.95 a share and 1979's $5.30 a share. The Ford Motor Company decided last month not to pay a dividend this quarter. The Chrysler Corporation has not paid a dividend in several years.  Roger B. Smith, G.M.'s chairman, and F. James McDonald, its president, issued a joint statement citing as a principal reason for the improved earnings the sharp cost-cutting, which has included thousands of layoffs of white-collar office w orkers. G.M. has announced a goal of trimming its salaried sta ff by 10 percent.  ''Intensified and extraordinary efforts to improve operating performance and record financing and insurance income helped the corporation earn a profit despite a lower unit volume than that achieved in 1980,'' they said. In its worldwide operations, G.M. sold 6.7 million cars and trucks last year, down from 7.1 million in 1980, itself a poor sales year. General Motors announced a price rebate program for February and March in an effort to improve the company's auto sales, which account for about 59 percent of the domestic market.  G.M. also said that its 1981 earnings were helped by an investment tax credit of $115 million for the fourth quarter and $123 million for the year.  This week or next, Ford and the Chrysler Corporation are expected to announce their results for the fourth quarter and all of 1981. Ford is expected to report a full-year loss of more than $1 billion, and Chrysler is expected to report a loss of more than $500 million. The American Motors Corporation is expected to post a loss of about $80 million.  Commenting on the outlook, Mr. Smith and Mr. McDonald emphasized the high cost of labor in this country compared with Japan, a theme they have been sounding for months. They said, ''Japan's significantly lower labor costs represent a disadvantage to General Motors of approximately $8 billion in a typical year.''  They added, ''Without question, noncompetitive labor costs represent the single biggest disadvantge we must overcome.'' Last week General Motors and the United Automobile Workers broke off negotiations aimed at linking lower car prices to wage and benefit concessions after union leaders bowed to rank-and-file resistance to the company's proposals.  The two executives said the G.M. board ''had given consideration to the possibility of a further reduction in the quarterly dividend,'' but they said the decision to continue the payout at the 60-cent level ''reflected G.M.'s underlying financial strength and the board's confidence in the future prospects for G.M. as well as the recognition of the importance of a pattern of continuity in the corporation's dividend payments.''  The transfer of Mr. Lund from the operating post at Chevrolet had been rumored for some time, fueled by the sharp drop in that division's sales. Last year, Chevrolet sales totaled 1.44 million cars, down from 1.75 million in 1980 and 2.3 million in 1978, the auto industry's last good year.  Mr. Stemple, an engineer and product specialist, is regarded as one of the company's top troublesho oters and one of a small group of candidates fo r the top jobs at G.M. if Mr. Smith and Mr. McDonald retire, as ex pected, in about nine years. Now the managing director of the Adam O pel subsidiary in Germany, Mr. Stemple is a former general manag er of the Pontiac division and chief engineer at Chevrolet.  Robert D. Burger, 57, the current vice president for sales and marketing, was moved to the new post of assistant general manager of the Cadillac division. He remains a vice president of the corporation, and there has been speculation that the current general manager of Cadillac, Edward C. Kennard, 63, may take early retirement soon.  In other changes in the company's American operations, John F. Smith Jr., 43, the corporate controller, was named director of the Worldwide Product Planning Group, succeeding William B. Larson, 50, who becomes manager of new vehicle development. Robert T. O'Connell, the company treasurer, succeeded Mr. Smith as controller, while Courtney F. Jones, the assistant treasurer, was promoted to treasurer.  In Europe, Ferdinand P.J. Beickler, chairman of G.M.'s Vauxhall Motors subsidiary in England takes Mr. Stemple's place in West Germany while John M. Fleming, director of commercial vehicle applications for Vauxhall, becomes chairman of the company. 
