19810302
HAMPTON, Conn.— It is unlikely that developing countries will fulfill their dreams of prosperity by following the route of United States and Western European industrialism.  The capacity to manufacture consumer products is based on a network of industries that make hardware, software, regulators, catalysts, chemical retardants, miniaturizers, this and that. It takes dozens, often hundreds, sometimes thousands of support companies making virtually unknown items to produce one consumer product.  Until such industries are created, a country cannot hope to achieve the "critical mass" that makes industry self-sustaining.  Developing countries probably will never be able to establish this matrix because the availability of natural and financial resources that made the industrial giants possible no longer exists.  Contrary to accepted wisdom, emerging countries do not abound with natural resources waiting for men, machines, and money to tap them. Most of the great deposits of iron, bauxite, oil, and uranium have been identified. Only a few countries, such as Brazil and Nigeria, have the resource wealth to establish a firm industrial base.  A world shortage of financial resources is the other problem. Capital information in the United States has become inadequate to modernize even our own industry. In the last 15 years, the average Japanese saved 20 percent of his disposable income, the average West German 14 percent, the average American only 6 percent. Thus, we are not accumulating enough investment funds through savings and other means to offer emerging nations the industrial help that 19th-century Europe gave us.  There are ways to create healthy economies that demand less capital and natural resources. If a country has a small market economy, no mineral resources, no means for capital formation (stock markets), neither adequate power structure nor a development transportation system and no skilled labor pool, it must look to its arable land and its natural and cultural attractions.  In resisting resorts, a former president of Grenada said he did not want the islanders to become a nation of waiters. A country whose only resource is beauty, climate, or cultural interest should overcome fears that a tourist industry demeans its people. Serving tourists involves all kinds of skills - those of managers, financiers, accountants, buyers, merchandisers, printers, plumbers, and, yes, waiters - and is difficult to do successfully. Miami restaurateurs have raised high-density feeding to a science; in Greece, tour guides - many of them graduate anthropologists - turn in a world-class performance. The resort industry provides a sound economic base for Puerto Rico and Hawaii where know-how makes it work.  According to myth, agricultural societies must be poor. Most are, it is true, but those with sound land distribution, enlightened tilling procedures, and modern marketing methods prosper - Denmark and New Zealand, for example.  Instead of borrowing funds to develop industrial parks, railroads, and dams as inducements to manufacturers, agricultural countries should use money to buy seed, fertilizer, stock, and machinery to develop a healthy food and fiber industries. This combined with fair pricing through cooperatives and international agreements can overcome the peasant psychology that prevails in underdeveloped countries.  To develop most effectively, emerging countries will have to find the best mix of agriculture, recreation, light manufacturing, and service industries.  Among services, for instance, they need repair mechanics for cars, tractors, electric motors, pumps, and appliances. A small investment in training this force will extend the life of all machinery. This would be the equivalent of importing these same products more frequently, but would cost less.  In developing countries, some light industry makes sense - installations put little burden on hard-currency reserves for importation of parts and raw materials. These include small foundries using scrap metal, machine shops, and firms making soap based on animal fat, furniture where forests exist, textiles and clothing, tanning and leather products, and firms that process food and build houses.  For countries with high-density populations and little else, emigration is the only solution.  But short of emigration, emerging nations clearly have alternative ways to achieve dignity and a decent standard of living. They must not squander limited financial resources in a vain attempt to attract big industry. That approach has worked but in other places and at other times. --------------------------------------------------------------------- Thomas A. Gaines, author of "Profits With Progress," about investing in Latin America, is president of a firm that develops local manufacturing in emerging countries. 
