20021203
 NASD Takes Disciplinary Action   By By Michelle Gerdes, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 4, 2002  Principal Herbert Clarence Hearne, Cotuit, was fined $15,000 and suspended from association with any NASD member in any capacity for one month. The fine must be paid before Mr. Hearne reassociates with any NASD member following the suspension or before requesting relief from any statutory disqualification. Without admitting or denying the allegations, Mr. Hearne consented to findings that he agreed to process the paperwork to open accounts and purchase transactions, effect transactions and pay commissions to a registered representative of another member firm once the representative became registered with his member firm. The NASD found that Mr. Hearne paid the representative commissions for transactions that occurred prior to the representative becoming registered with his member firm. In addition, the NASD determined that Mr. Hearne failed to take appropriate action to supervise a registered representative who recommended unsuitable transactions in customer accounts, which was reasonably designed to prevent the violations by the representative and achieve compliance with applicable securities laws, regulations and NASD rules.  Marlon Francisco Delgado, a broker, Franklin Square, was fined $10,000, suspended from association with any NASD member in any capacity for 18 months, and required to requalify by exam as a general securities representative. If Mr. Delgado fails to requalify within 60 days after conclusion of the suspension, he shall not associate with any NASD member in any capacity until he requalifies. The fine must be paid before Mr. Delgado reassociates with any NASD member following the suspension or before requesting relief from any statutory disqualification. Without admitting or denying the allegations, Mr. Delgado consented to findings that he effected the sale of securities in at least three states in which he wasn't registered and attempted to conceal his actions by placing the trades under another broker's name. The findings said Mr. Delgado solicited public customers to purchase securities, downplayed the attendant investment risks, and made unwarranted price predictions, causing the customers to authorize and pay for the transactions. The NASD found that Mr. Delgado effected transactions in the account of a public customer without the customer's prior knowledge, authorization or consent.  Joseph John Papeo, a broker, Brooklyn, was barred from association with any NASD member in any capacity. Without admitting or denying the allegations, Mr. Papeo consented to findings that he effected transactions in the accounts of public customers without their prior knowledge, authorization or consent. The findings said Mr. Papeo, in an exercise of discretion, effected transactions in the joint account of public customers without their prior written authorization and his member firm's written acceptance of the account as discretionary. In addition, the NASD found that Mr. Papeo exercised discretion in the account of public customers and effected a purchase transaction without having reasonable grounds for believing that the transaction was reasonable based on the customers' financial situation, investment objectives and financial needs. The NASD found that Mr. Papeo effected transactions in his joint trading account at his member firm without paying for the transactions, transferred at least $8,000 to his joint personal bank account and wrote a $20,000 check from his personal bank account to his member firm's clearing firm to pay for transactions effected in his joint trading account that was returned for insufficient funds, causing his firm to be left with a $21,874.30 debit balance. Furthermore, the NASD found that Mr. Papeo failed to respond truthfully during an NASD on-the-record interview, failed to respond to NASD requests for documents and failed to respond to NASD requests to appear for a follow-up on-the-record interview.   
