19820502
ATHENS— A couple of hundred farmers from the region of Xanthe in northeastern Greece got on their tractors and began plowing their fields recently in defiance of a court order expropriating their land.  Under normal circumstances, this would be considered a minor land dispute to be settled by the local authorities, but because the farmers were Moslems of Turkish origin living in Western Thrace under Greek rule, the incident took on international proportions, aggravating tensions between Greece and Turkey.  The Greek press has accused Turkey of provocations, conspiracy and using the Moslem minority in Western Thrace for irredentist aims. In return, the Turkish media has accused the Greeks of persecuting the Moslem minority and of violating the 1923 peace treaty of Lausanne, and the Turkish Government has threatened retaliation on its Greek minority.  Cyprus and Aegean Tensions  The problem of the Thracian farmers emerged at a time of renewed tension between the two countries over Cyprus and the Aegean. High-level talks between the two Governments were interrupted, with Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou asserting that Greece had nothing to negotiate over the Aegean and that Turkey's continued occupation of Cyprus was an international problem. Senior Greek officials, however, insist privately that the Papandreou Government needs time to work out ''a new approach'' to the talks.  But mutual suspicions and antagonisms are growing. Every incident becomes an event, magnified and denounced by one side or the other and a potential crisis between the two North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies.  The incidents of Western Thrace assumed particular importance in view of the underlying strains. Haluk Ulman, a former left of center deputy in the Turkish Parliament, said recently, ''As long as the relations between the two countries are tense, the problem of the Greeks in Istanbul and the Turks in Western Thrace will always arise as a matter of dispute.'' Greek Minority Has Shrunk  In response to Turkish charges of ''discrimination,'' the Greeks pointed out that while the Greek minority in Turkey had shrunk from 100,000 in 1955 to only 5,000 today, the Moslem minority in Western Thrace had increased in the same period from 120,000 to 129,000.  The current problems in Western Thrace began at the beginning of the year when the Government decided to undertake a national inventory of property, something that has never been done systematically in Greece. This move is expected to result in a number of land disputes, particularly with the Greek Orthodox Church, which is a large landholder.  In the village of Evlalos near Xanthe, a court ruled in late March that most of the 500 acres of arable land belonged to the state, including property where about half the houses were built.  There are 130 Moslem families and four Greek Orthodox families living in Evlalos, and most of them have title deeds to their property, according to an independent Greek journalist who visited the area. The court was said to have based its decision on a document drawn up in 1974 by the right-wing military junta with the aim of getting rid of the Moslem minority. Tobacco and Grain Farmers  The villagers, most of them tobacco or grain farmers, appealed the court decision and at the same time organized an 11-day sitdown strike in the central square of Xanthe.  The demonstrators were later persuaded to call off their strike and wait for the result of their appeal. 
