20040520
 Fed Shifts Focus From Job Growth To Rising Prices; Inflation Outpaces What Central Bank Had Expected; How Fast Will Rates Rise?   By Ip, Greg, The Wall Street Journal,  May 21, 2004  Mr. [Ben Bernanke], who was among the Fed officials most concerned last year about the prospect of deflation, said he still expects the Fed to be able to move gradually. He said that's because inflation should be restrained by the gap between the economy's actual output and what it could produce at full employment. That gap moderates workers' ability to get wage increases and businesses' ability to raise prices. He also cited other inflation-restraining factors: brisk growth in productivity, or output per hour, which allows businesses to raise wages without raising prices; and an apparent end to the dollar's decline and to the rise in commodity prices -- except, of course, for oil. Inflation, excluding volatile food and energy prices, is "likely to remain in the zone of price stability during the remainder of 2004 and 2005."  The Fed is almost certain to raise its target for the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, from 1% at its late June meeting. Markets are assuming the rate will then rise rapidly to about 2% by the end of the year. A month or so ago Fed officials would have considered that too fast, but have indicated in recent days they are happy with market expectations. That's important because they don't want to surprise bond markets, as that could catch some big investors unawares and trigger unwelcome turmoil, as it did in 1994. To avoid such surprises, the Fed has crafted the statements it issues after each of its policy meetings to signal its changing intentions. Chairman Alan Greenspan has done the same in his public remarks. Mr. Bernanke yesterday noted that thanks to the clarity of the Fed's communications, long-term interest rates have risen sharply in recent weeks on the assumption the Fed would raise rates. That, he noted, helps the Fed do its job by damping interest-sensitive spending as long as the Fed actually raises rates, as markets expect.  Messrs. Bernanke and Broaddus are among the Fed's "doves" -- less inclined to see a risk of rising inflation. A small but growing group of "hawks" worry that the Fed has taken too much comfort in the output gap as a safeguard against inflation.   
