20020304
 In War, Soldiers Die   By By Ralph Peters, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 5, 2002  I have been a soldier. My most cherished friends still wear Army uniforms. Several are in Afghanistan or Pakistan at this moment, and a man I love as a brother is in an extremely dangerous position. I can assure the reader that my feelings regarding American losses are serious. But let me be blunt: While every American life matters, in war good guys get killed as well as bad guys. Soldiers know this when they volunteer. And nine or 10 -- or a 100 -- U.S. combat deaths do not indicate defeat or even a meaningful tactical setback, depending on the scale of the operation. (By the way, did the hundreds of firefighter deaths in the World Trade Center mean the New York Fire Department had failed?). Combat deaths indicate that we are serious about destroying the enemy, that we are willing to do whatever it takes. I would be far more distrustful of a campaign without casualties.  That is what we are seeing now. Larger numbers of special operations forces and infantrymen are engaged in the current operations south of Gardez simply because that is what it takes. The Tora Bora operation was staged in haste, amidst the confusion of a fast-moving war and a collapsed state. This time, there has been a careful intelligence build-up, coordination with Pakistani forces on the border and with our allies, a build-up of innovative munitions for our aircraft, training and equipment for at least some of the Afghans fighting alongside of us -- and a detailed plan of operations. We timed the operation carefully, so the enemy would still be obstructed by winter conditions. Even security was better than it had been in the past, despite the scale of the effort. Our enemies were not allowed the time and the means to escape. Many, if not all, of them are surrounded now. Should we be surprised if encircled fanatics fight doggedly?  My sole fear is that some elements within our government, responding to the broadcast media's alarmist whining, will argue for interrupting the operation. That would be entirely wrong. We cannot afford any more Mogadishus, where U.S. victories convince our leaders to cut and run. The least wavering merely encourages our enemies and costs us far more casualties down the line -- as the last administration's failure to take serious action against terrorism led directly to Sept. 11. I don't think the [Bush] administration will follow such a course -- but we must not flinch for even an instant. Not even if the casualty figures soar. The best way to honor our dead is to defeat the enemy.   
