19810809
An ethicist is an ethicist, and a cop is a cop, and the two are not always the same. A moralist, however, is something else, and cops, along with politicians and certain preachers, are often moralists. It is a tricky difference, but an ethicist is concerned with his own sense of right and wrong, and a moralist with someone else's. Former Detective Second Grade Robert Leuci is now an ethicist, a lonely position, which next week will be celebrated, or at least explored, in a new movie. The movie, ''Prince of the City,'' opening Aug. 19 at the Cinema 1, 2 and 3 theaters, is based on his life in the Police Department. He exposed other cops in wrongdoing, and finally admitted wrongdoing himself.  ''The truth is, I am not a renegade or a strange guy,'' he says. ''I am an absolute reflection of other detectives. If they - good, honest people, as they see themselves - weren't bothered by what they were doing, why was I? I've given the Police Department a lot of problems. I wasn't a weirdo. I wasn't Frank Serpico. He wore a Tshirt with a pig on it. I was a cop.''  And as a cop, Detective Leuci went undercover against the other cops in the Special Investigating Unit in the Narcotics Division, a small force whose members included some of the best detectives in the city. They roamed New York at will, chose their own targets and made major, even famous, arrests. Moreover, they had style and flair, a kind of dash that other cops didn't have. In part, it was because they had more money. Certainly they dressed better, favoring suede and expensive leather, and while many detectives were cocky, SIU detectives had a transcendent self-assurance. They were, a judge once said, ''the princes of the city.''  Then came the tragedy, a terribly sad one. From 1968 to 1971, some 70 detectives were members of SIU. By 1976, 52 of them had been indicted; two more had committed suicide, and most of the rest had been compromised one way or another. They were all Detective Leuci's comrades, but if it had not been for him, probably none of it would have happened.  ''Bob Leuci's story has everything,'' says Sidney Lumet, the director of ''Prince of the City.'' ''Nobody turns out to be what you think they are when you first see them. And to me, it's a genuine tragedy. It's a serious story. There's so much popcorn around in movies today. If a shot lasts 10 seconds, that's a lot. Nobody trusts the audience's attention anymore. This movie isn't like that. To me, Bob Leuci is a hero, but in the movie he's not a hero. The Bob Leuci character isn't supposed to be lovable. There are no heroes and no villains in 'Prince of the City.' ''  The movie, which is adapted from Robert Daley's book, is a morality tale about sin, guilt, bravado and redemption, faithful to Mr. Leuci's life. In 1971, when the Knapp Commission was investigating police corruption, Nicholas Scopetta, one of its attorneys, interviewed Detective Leuci. Presumably, he was not suspected of anything then; he was supposed to be clean, as well as full of zeal and outrage. The outrage - many cops have it - was directed at perfidious district attorneys, unscrupulous bail bondsmen, incompetent judges and extravagantly paid criminal lawyers. They were the cancers in the system, Detective Leuci said, not the cops.  Mr. Scopetta, an adept attorney, listened. He also cajoled and persuaded. Detective Leuci agreed to work undercover, wearing a wire, as they say, recording the conversations of the people he dealt with. He would even help to catch crooked cops (''the stone criminals, the really bad guys'' was the way he thought of them) but never, he said, would he ever turn on his old partners or friends. He said they were all good men. Besides, he and they were joined in that deep brotherhood that only a cop and his partners were supposed to know.  Mr. Scopetta, a reasonable man, agreed to Detective Leuci's terms. Still, what happened was inevitable. The investigation widened; agents of the Drug Enforcement Administration, assistant U.S. attorneys and prosecutors of all kinds joined in. Some of them were simply curious about Detective Leuci; others regarded him with contempt. How could he have remained honest, they asked, while detectives very much like him had succumbed? In the end, under extraordinary pressures, Detective Leuci confessed to some of the same crimes for which the other detectives were being indicted. He was not prosecuted, but he violated the one bond he said he had wanted to keep: he implicated his old friends and partners.  Last month, five years after the investigation and its last trial, Detective Leuci retired from the Police Department. He had been in a kind of Coventry in those years, shunned by other officers, while he taught surveillance techniques and then worked with the Civilian Complaint Review Board. Neither job had pleased him, especially the second. ''It was outrageous,'' he said. ''I had to conciliate criminals - dope dealers whom somebody had slapped in the face. No true cop should have to do anything like that. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
