19810528
The Ashland Oil Company said yesterday that final negotiations were under way to sell 25 percent of its wholly owned subsidiary, Ashland Coal Inc., for $102.5 million to Saarbergwerke A.G. of West Germany.  The talks are a further step by Ashland to rid itself of assets not generating adequate results. Bill Block, a spokesman for Ashland Oil, said the sale to Saarbergwerke, which is owned by the West German and Saar governments, would open new European markets for Ashland Coal.  Earlier, Ashland said it was talking to two prospective buyers about purchasing up to 40 percent of its coal subsidiary. Mr. Block said one of the companies had withdrawn, but he added that other European buyers still were interested in purchasing part of Ashland Coal.  ''We will look at any opportunity that presents itself in the redeployment of our assets, but we will probably maintain a 50 percent interest in Ashland Coal,'' Mr. Block said.  Ashland Oil began to acquire the 384 million tons of coal reserves in Kentucky and West Virginia in the mid-l970's, when coal's resurgence as a dominant energy source was thought to be just around the corner. Weak Earnings  But the subsidiary's performance has been less than spectacular. In the six months ended March 31, 1981, the company earned $7.2 million on sales of $82.3 million. Last year, Ashland Coal produced 5.2 million tons of coal, primarily for the domestic market.  Ashland, a major oil refiner, has been going through a broad redeployment of its assets since l978. It has sold most of its crude oil production and exploration assets, segments of its chemical company and parts of its construction division. In the past year, Ashland paid $510 million to purchase the United States Filter Corporation, known for its coal liquefaction and pollution technologies, and the Integon Corporation, an insurance concern. Ashland recently agreed to pay about $8 million for Data Care, a small computer software company.  ''I don't think their asset redeployment is finished yet,'' said Robert Grossman, an analyst with Prescot Ball & Turben. ''I wouldn't be surprised to see them sell off their refineries.''  Ashland Oil suffered a drop in earnings in the six months ended March 31, primarily because its margins on crude oil refining have been squeezed. The company earned $27.5 million on sales of $4.3 billion in the six months, compared with earnings of $123.3 million on sales of $4.1 billion during the corresponding period a year earlier. 
