19810206
BOSTON, Feb. 5— Don Maloney, a hero last night at Madison Square Garden with three goals in a 9-3 rout of the Islanders, did his best to carry on for the Rangers tonight with two goals at Boston Garden. But they were offset by two goals from Rick Middleton, and the Bruins won, 6-3.  Middleton, taking a drop pass from Jean Ratelle, scored to break a 3-3 tie at 19 minutes 38 seconds of the middle period and blunt a three-goal surge by the Rangers. Then Ray Bourque got his 17th goal at the 12-minute mark of the third period to make it 5-3.  Middleton closed out the scoring in the final minute after the Rangers had removed their goaltender, Steve Baker, for a sixth skater. Middleton's Streak at 14  Middleton has scored at least a point in 14 successive games, the longest streak in the league this season. He has 28 goals and 46 assists over all.  ''The streak is nice,'' Middleton said. ''I don't know about any record, but everything is just falling in right now. Ratelle, after 20 years, he's amazing. He always seems to know where his wings will be.''  The victory before a crowd of 12,593 gave the Bruins an 11-2-2 mark in their last 15 games. The Rangers are 5-2 in their last seven games.  ''We've played really well for a long period of time,'' said Craig Patrick, the Rangers' coach. ''You're going to have a letdown sometime, but I thought we came back real well after a slow start.''  The Bruins took a 3-0 lead in the first period. Mike O'Connell got the first goal at 8:54 while Ulf Nilsson and Ron Duguay were sitting out Ranger penalties. O'Connell beat Baker with a straight shot to the glove side after he and Brad Park had taken shots moments before.  Then Ratelle, a onetime Ranger, scored at 14:38, punching home the puck after Tom Laidlaw fail to clear it from in front of the goal. It was a simple matter for Ratelle to knock the puck past Baker, who was screened.  Slightly more than a minute later, Keith Crowder, taking a pass from Park, slammed a shot into the upper left-hand corner of the cage before Baker could even move, and the Bruins had a three-goal advantage.  ''Their game is forechecking,'' said Baker, ''especially in this small rink, and they hemmed us in pretty good in that first period. I felt comfortable and got stronger as the game went on.'' Baker has a 1-1 record since his recall from New Haven of the American League.  The Rangers dominated the second period until the final minute. Maloney, 33 seconds into the period, blasted a 40-foot shot past Rogie Vachon, the Bruins' goalie, after taking a deft pass from Eddie Johnstone. Rangers Get a Break  Then came a break for New York. Middleton skated in alone and fired the puck past Baker, but the goal did not count because the referee, Bob Myers, had already whistled the play dead as he meted out penalties to Ron Greschner and Dwight Foster.  Given that reprieve the Rangers went back to the attack. Again it was Maloney, this time with an assist from his brother, Dave, beating Vachon at 10:50. Vachon was caught out of position because he had gone far to his right in an effort to get the loose puck.  Maloney's first goal was a shorthanded one, with Nick Fotiu in the penalty box. But the sides were even when Maloney got his second, his 18th goal of the season.  Johnstone brought the Rangers even at 11:41 when he took a drop pass from Laidlaw and fired the puck through Laidlaw's legs and past Vachon.  But Vachon went on to achieve his fifth straight victory; he has an 8-1-0 mark in his last nine starts. 
