19810306
WASHINGTON, March 5— Transportation Secretary Drew Lewis suggested today that New York City might have difficulty trading in funds earmarked for construction of the Westway and using the money for mass transit.  This is so, the Secretary said, because such funds are allotted on a first-come, first-served basis, and other places have applied for trade-ins while New York City and state officials have debated whether to build the superhighway on the West Side or to divert the money to shoring up the troubled transit system.  Mr. Lewis's remarks were made at a hearing on transportation problems held by the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Transportation and Tourism. Agreement on M.T.A. Plan  Meanwhile, after a three-hour meeting in Albany, Governor Carey, Mayor Koch, Assembly Speaker Stanley Fink and Richard Ravitch, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, were in virtual agreement on the details of a plan to pump $5 billion of improvements into the M.T.A. system over the next five years. (Page B3.)  The question of whether New York City might have waited too long in the Westway matter was raised at the House hearing by the ranking Republican member of the subcommittee, Representative Norman F. Lent of Long Island. Mr. Lent said that many cities had already submitted trade-in applications of the kind that New York is still weighing.  Mr. Lewis agreed with him and put the amount available for tradeins at $800 million in 1981 and at the same amount in 1982. Of that, $200 million is made available each year for highway-to-highway transfers, leaving $600 million a year available for highway-totransit trade-ins, as they are called. Availability of Money  In answering whether there would be enough money available for New York City, should it decide to get in the line for the trade-ins, Mr. Lewis said:  ''But when you spread over the entire nation transfers already in motion, there's not much available for new transfer programs.'' Mr. Lewis left the hearing room immediately after testifying and telephone calls requesting expansion on the trade-in question were not returned, although a spokesman did say later that the entire matter was being reviewed.  It was further understood from other sources that the Department of Transportation was reviewing the concept of a first-come, firstserved list, but that if it decided to drop it, the Administration would be subject to protests from cities already on the list.  The department spokesman said he was unable to provide immediately the names of the cities on the list and the total trade-ins they are seeking.  In other matters, Mr. Lewis assured the chairman of the subcommittee, Representative James J. Florio, that he was not accepting without change the cutbacks that the Office of Management and Budget was seeking to impose on the Conrail and Amtrak railroad operations.  For example, when Mr. Florio noted that Mr. Lewis was saying that fare increases of 13 to 20 percent would be necessary on Amtrak while the Office of Management and Budget was calling for a 100 percent increase, Mr. Lewis answered, ''That's only if we follow O.M.B.'s program on this, and we don't plan to follow it.'' An Alternative Suggested  Instead, Mr. Lewis said that a better alternative would be to drop seldom-used trains, such as the one running between Washington and Cincinnati, then make partial service reductions elsewhere and increase the fares on the remainder.  The Washington-Cincinnati train was singled out by Mr. Lewis as being particularly wasteful of Federal subsidies since, he said, it costs so much that the Government could save money by buying all its users airplane tickets and dropping the train.  Representative Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Baltimore, told the Secretary that she was concerned that Amtrak's station rehabilitation programs would be dropped in her hometown and in New Haven, where the stations are to anchor downtown rehabilitation.  ''New Haven is in the budget,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''Baltimore I don't know about.'' What about Newark? Mr. Florio asked. ''There is some problem in Newark,'' Mr. Lewis answered. 
