19940406
 The Fugitive: That's Cheek: CEO Who Vanished Is Held In a Scam on the Lam --- Ex-Wall Street Favorite Said To Have Started New Life -- As Georgia Embezzler --- A Good Friend and Neighbor   By By Thomas M. Burton, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 7, 1994  The 43-year-old man, who went by the name Paul Fenwick and wore a fuzzy beard, lived in a spectacular and secluded pine-log home atop Taloma Mountain here, from which he could survey the Blue Ridge range for miles around. The windows of his Jeep, and of his garage, were tinted black. When visitors asked why he kept three computers in three different rooms, he told them he worked secretly as novelist Tom Clancy's ghostwriter, and he liked to move from room to room to assume different characters as he wrote. He deflected inquiries about his past by explaining that he had been a Central Intelligence Agency operative in Southeast Asia.  But Mr. Fenwick was so extravagantly friendly, hard-working and helpful to his neighbors after settling here in 1991 that townspeople overlooked these curiosities as the quirks of a brilliant man. They were shocked when, they say, he ran off with their money, and even more shocked when FBI agents identified him as Malcolm Cheek, former chief executive officer of Y&A Group Inc., a man who had made his company one of the hottest stocks on Wall Street and then vanished from a room at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Manhattan on March 4, 1991, leaving his razor but taking his wallet and briefcase.  Wall Street had been similarly charmed by Mr. Cheek when he ran Y&A, an engineering consulting firm with 150 employees based in the St. Louis suburb of Creve Coeur, Mo. Y&A went public in June 1989 and became a favored issue on the Nasdaq stock market. Mr. Cheek was an energetic publicist who spoke to financial analysts of plans for global expansion. He called himself a financial expert, although his main academic credential was a mailorder bachelor of business degree from a private university in New York.   
