19820312
BRADENTON, Fla., March 11— Willie Stargell, who turned 41 years of age last week, confirmed today that this was his 21st and final year in the major leagues, and said:  ''I look at my career and savor it, like a good meal. Right now, I feel I'm on the dessert.'' Stargell, who has spent his entire career with the Pittsburgh Pirates, savored his dessert even more before the sunny afternoon ended. Playing first base against the New York Mets for five innings, he singled off the right-field wall in the first inning against Neil Allen and hit a two-run home run over the wall in the fifth against Jesse Orosco.  This was an old story for the Mets, because Stargell has hit 59 of his 472 regular-season home runs against them, more than any other player in the big leagues. But this was also a new season for the Mets, who opened their 25-game exhibition schedule by losing to the Pirates, 8-7.  The Mets were playing their first game under George Bamberger, and they fielded a lineup packed in the middle by George Foster, Dave Kingman and Ellis Valentine, all acquired in trades during the last year. When Kingman golfed a home run over the left-field fence off Jim Bibby in the first inning, the Mets took a 2-0 lead.  But the Pirates wiped it out in the second when Stargell and Bill Madlock singled off Allen, and Johnny Ray hit a home run over the wall in right field. Ray is the rookie second baseman who joined the Pirates from the Houston Astros last summer in the trade for Phil Garner. He is a switch-hitter, and he manhandled the Mets from both sides of the plate. He batted left-handed against Allen and righthanded against Orosco in the fourth inning, when he singled home another run.  Then ''Pops'' Stargell cleared the wall near the flagpole in the fifth, his first home run anywhere since Aug. 8, 1980, and the Pirates built their lead to 8-3. The Mets rallied with four runs in the eighth against Tim Burke, a rookie right-hander, with the damage being done by a pair of two-run singles by Rick Sweet and Gary Rajsich.  But that was as close as the Mets' new offense came to producing an upset. With Foster batting with two down, Manager Chuck Tanner of the Pirates called for Kent Tekulve, his best relief pitcher, and Foster popped high to third base. Pirates' Pampered Pitchers  For the Pirates, who have collapsed since winning the World Series in 1979, there were two scoreless inning each from John Candelaria and Don Robinson. Tanner pampers his pitchers at the start of spring training by working them only two innings at a time. And against the Mets, he got good glimmers from Candelaria, who tore the bicep in his left arm last May and pitched only 41 innings all year, and Robinson, who underwent shoulder surgery last fall after pitching only 38 innings.  ''If Candelaria and Robinson are healthy,'' Tanner said, ''we're contenders. If not, we're hurting.'' ''There's some age on this team since we won the Series,'' said Harding Peterson, the executive vice president. ''But injuries made the inroads, not age.'' Parker Doubles Off Orosco  Are the Pirates still trying to trade Dave Parker? He weighed 260 pounds last spring but now says he has lost more than 20 pounds. Parker avoids stepping on scales in the clubhouse, but recently reported: ''I'm 237 now.'' Today, he said, ''I feel great, and I'm ready to go,'' and then hit a scoring double off Orosco.  ''I'll trade anybody but Willie Stargell,'' said Peterson, when asked about Parker's future. Stargell's home run was unusual because he did not play last spring, then hit no home runs during the strike-split season, in which he appeared mostly as a pinch-hitter.  ''This is it,'' he said today, repeating his intention to retire. ''My last year. But nature doesn't let you know in advance how you'll react, so I don't know yet what my emotions will be when I walk away.  ''I'm not hung on statistics, like hitting 500 home runs.'' He laughed and added: ''Or like stealing 20 bases. I've got 17 in 20 years. ''It's like Shakespeare said: 'To thine own self be true.' I'm healthy, and I'd just like to see what I can do this one last time.'' ''Willie has a lifetime job with the Pirates,'' Tanner said. ''Who else can say that?'' 
