19810614
NEW BRUNSWICK A''POSTMORTEM'' conference on New Jersey's recent gubernatorial primary - the meeting is titled, ''Would They Still Have Won - And, If So, By How Much?'' - will take place Wednesday at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University.  Alan Rosenthal, director of the institute, said the conference would focus on the results of an exit poll, conducted on Election Day, that asked 2,500 voters to identify all the candidates they considered acceptable for the office of Governor.  According to Steven J. Brams, a professor of politics at New York University, both the exit poll and the conference at Eagleton stem from his ''new concepts of approval voting,'' which, he said, was destined to become ''the election reform of the 20th century.'' Since January, Dr. Brams has campaigned for its adoption in New Jersey; 11 states, he noted, have given the idea ''serious consideration.''  ''The sad fact is that election winners today often represent only a relatively small percentage of the electorate,'' Dr. Brams said, adding:  ''If approval voting were enacted in New Jersey, the voter in a multi-candidate race could vote for or approve of as many candidates as he desired with one vote for each. At present, it is possible for the plurality winner of a primary election to be a weaker candidate than one or more of the losers.''  His system, Dr. Brams said, insures that, after the votes are counted, the winning candidate - because he holds the most approval votes - is also the strongest candidate in the field.  Last March, other proponents of electoral change joined Dr. Brams at a conference, also held at Eagleton, that was called ''The Runoff Primary and Its Alternative.'' At that parley, Assemblyman John Paul Doyle, Democrat of Brick Town, argued in behalf of a bill that he introduced; it requires a runoff election if a leading gubernatorial candidate in the primaries does not receive at least 40 percent of the vote.  Encouraged by the interest that politicians evoked in his proposal for approval voting, Dr. Brams joined with Arnold B. Urken of Millburn, a professor of political science at Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, to seek financing so that the exit poll concept could be tested with New Jersey data.  The poll was devised by Dr. Brams and Dr. Urken after they received a $12,000 grant from The Fund for New Jersey, a philanthropic organization in East Orange. It asked voters leaving the polling booths to mark a questionnaire with the names of ''other candidates'' they would have voted for ''if you could have cast more than one vote.''  The results will not be divulged until Wednesday. Dr. Brams said that the ''winners'' would learn how ''broad-based'' their support was and how many other people found them acceptable. ''Losers,'' he added, might gain knowledge about their support that would be ''vital information'' if they chose to run again.  And there are ''some surprises for all,'' Dr. Brams added. Despite what the exit poll may reveal, many of those invited to the conference on Wednesday said they were willing to voice their opinions about changing election methods.  Senator Bill Bradley, Democrat of Denville, who eight months ago endorsed Assemblyman Doyle's concept of a ''runoff primary,'' said in a telephone interview several days after the election:  ''I thought the really excellent candidate won, and he (James J. Florio) won with a bigger percentage (26 percent) of the vote than most people thought.  ''To avert a catastrophe of someone winning with a very small percentage of the vote, you might play around with the number. Maybe it's not 40 percent, maybe it's a smaller number.''  Several days after the election, David Norcross of Moorestown, the Republican state chairman, said that he opposed the idea of both a runoff primary and approval voting. He prefers ''a meaningful county convention to choose the primary delegates, followed by a state convention, as Connecticut does.''  Peter P. Curtin Jr. of Lawrenceville is executive director of the Democratic State Committee. Several months ago, he described approval voting as ''a very attractive approach,'' and he still favors it as a means of drawing greater voter participation. 
