19820716
The Yankees opened the second half of their season last night with two dramatic moves: Dave Righetti was recalled from the Class AAA Columbus Clippers and Graig Nettles connected on a two-run homer in the eighth inning that beat the Oakland A's, 2-1, at the Stadium.  Righetti earned his return with five shutout innings last night against the Rochester Red Wings that included three hits, eight strikeouts and one walk. In four outings since his tearful departure from Yankee Stadium on June 27 with a 5-5 record, Righetti had a 1-0 record and a 2.81 earned run average in 252/3 innings with Columbus. During his stay there under the supervision of Sammy Ellis, the Yankees' Class AAA pitching coach, last year's American League Rookie of the Year gave up 11 runs, eight of them earned, on 19 hits, walked 11 and struck out 33.  Ellis is expected to be with Righetti when he returns to Yankee Stadium and will remain for a few days to supervise his re-entry into major league life, according to Bill Bergesch, the Yankees' vice president for baseball operations.  Righetti's return will force the Yankees to trim their roster as they did yesterday by sending Barry Foote, the reserve catcher, to Columbus because of the activation of Rick Cerone. Manager Gene Michael expected the next roster decision to be announced today and plans to start Righetti on Tuesday. Scoring Chances Missed  The Yankees, 39-42 in the first half of the season and losers of their last four games, had men in scoring position last night in five of the first six innings. Their most disheartening moment came when they failed to score with the bases loaded and one out in the sixth inning.  The restive crowd started making noise when Nettles popped out and Roy Smalley hit into an inning-ending force play in the sixth, and sounds increased in the top of the seventh.  Mike Morgan, the Yankee starter, walked Mike Heath and gave way to George Frazier in relief. Frazier then committed a throwing error trying for a force play at second, putting Heath at third and Fred Stanley at first. Rickey Henderson's single drove in Heath with a run and that brought on Rudy May, who was aware that Righetti's recall might end his Yankee career.  May struck out Dwayne Murphy, retired Dan Meyer on an infield fly and struck out the pinch-hitter Mickey Klutts to end the half-inning with the A's leading, 1-0. In the eighth May struck out Jeff Burroughs, then was replaced by Rich Gossage.  With Dave Beard, the fourth of five Oakland pitchers, working the eighth inning, Bobby Murcer pinch-hit and grounded out before Dave Winfield singled up the middle. Dave Collins, another pinch-hitter, flied out and Nettles came to the plate. The count was 3 and 2 and Nettles had fouled off several pitches when he lashed his seventh home run of the season into the right-field stands. The two-run shot gave the Yankees their 2-1 lead and a victory for Gossage, the Yankees fourth pitcher, in a game that took three and a half hours. A Visit From Steinbrenner  ''It was a long game and probably boring as much as anything,'' Nettles said. ''If you're out there that long, you might as well win.''  George Steinbrenner kicked off the second half of the season with a pre-game visit to the clubhouse and toured the room chatting casually with various players rather than calling a full-dress meeting. ''They're going to be all right,'' the owner said. ''You wait.''  Among others, Steinbrenner talked with Ron Guidry, Sunday's scheduled starter, who is 1-3 in his last nine starts. The owner also visited with Shane Rawley, the converted reliever who is scheduled to start on Saturday; Butch Hobson, recalled on Wednesday after two weeks in Columbus; and John Mayberry and Nettles, both of whom have been less productive than Steinbrenner expected.  Along the way, Steinbrenner supervised a delicate negotiation with Foote, the 30-year-old veteran who is under contract to the Yankees through the 1984 season. Because Foote has five or more years in the major leagues, the Yankees needed his approval to demote him to Columbus to make room on the roster for Cerone. Foote went along with the move when a written agreement was drawn up and that permitted Cerone's activation last night after he had missed 53 games with a fractured left thumb.  Under the agreement, Foote said, he will spend 20 days on the Columbus roster and be guaranteed a sum of money, which he would not specify, if he is not returned to the Yankees by the end of that period. A similar arrangement was made with Butch Hobson two weeks ago.  ''It's not a matter of disbelief,'' Foote said in explaining why he would not agree to his deal until a written agreement had been read to his agent, the Atlanta-based Bruce Church. ''It's just a matter of sensible business practice.''  Illustrations: photo of Rickey Henderson (page A18) 
