19820419
International Longstanding obligations to Britain on the part of the United States were reaffirmed in Buenos Aires by Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. in remarks apparently aimed at exerting pressure on Argentina in the Falkland Islands crisis. There were signs that his talks with Argentine leaders were becoming increasingly strained, and he suggested that both sides put off for now the problem of dealing with the crucial issue of sovereignty over the islands. (Page A1, Column 6.) Phone calls from 10 Downing Street to colleagues were made by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher as anxiety increased over the continuing deadlock in the peace negotiations in Buenos Aires. The Prime Minister's urgent calls were the second time in 24 hours that she had asked for opinions of Cabinet members on the Falkland Islands crisis. (A1:3-5.)  The release of all Polish women interned under martial law was urged by Archbishop Jozef Glemp, Poland's Primate, who spoke at a ceremony in Warsaw, attended by 30,000 people, blessing the Virgin Mary. It was the biggest outdoor gathering since martial law was declared in December, and had official approval. (A1:1.) Israel has decided to evict Jews who have defied orders to leave northern Sinai, part of the territory that is scheduled to be returned to Egypt next week. The announcement was made shortly after protesters in the Kach movement, led by Rabbi Meir Kahane of the Jewish Defense League, pledged to kill themselves rather than be evacuated. (A3:4-6.) Egypt's President affirmed that the Camp David accords were ''the only existing basis'' for peace in the Middle East, President Reagan's special envoy said in Cairo. The remarks by Deputy Secretary of State Walter J. Stoessel Jr. were made to reporters after he met with President Hosni Mubarak. (A3:1-3.) Salvadoran farm output has declined on the largest farms that the Government expropriated and converted to peasant cooperatives, according to a study by the Center for Documentation and Information at the Unversity of Central America, El Salvador's largest university. It contradicts more favorable reports about the land redistribution program released by Salvadoran and United States agencies. The university has been accused by United States and Salvadoran officials of a bias toward the left, but its report is certain to be cited by recently elected rightist politicians who contend that the land redistribution efforts should be scrapped or substantially modified. (A14:1-3.) National The President might reverse his stand and accept the income tax surcharge being proposed to break the stalemate over the 1983 budget, Howard H. Baker Jr., the Senate majority leader, said he was encouraged to believe. Despite what he thought was an indication of flexibility from the White House, Senator Baker warned that ''neither side is terribly enthusiastic'' about major elements of the package being negotiated by the White House and Congressional leaders to cut the budget deficit. (A1:2.) The specter of nuclear destruction was enacted in dozens of cities as a week of antinuclear demonstrations began. There were films, foot races, bicycle tours, concerts, lectures and debates aimed at stimulating discussions about the the possiblity of nuclear war and its effects. (A16:1.) Excessive drinking on campus is so serious that it has become a national issue. One of the concerned colleges is Dartmouth, reportedly one of the inspirations for the movie ''Animal House.'' Eighty volunteers participate in the Alcohol Peer Counselors, a group that helps students with alcohol problems. Dartmouth's president, David T. McLaughlin, said ''Dartmouth is undertaking the task of educating students about alcohol in a more comprehensive way than on most campuses.'' (B4:2-6.) The judge in the Hinckley case is considering whether to bar the testimony of victims in the trial of John W. Hinckley Jr., who is charged with shooting President Reagan and three others on March 30, 1981. Mr. Hinckley's attorneys are also seeking to prevent the prosecution from introducing graphic evidence showing how the victims were shot and the nature of their injuries. (B5:1-3.) Metropolitan Mayor Koch was praised by law experts for impartiality in his judicial appointments. His pledge to keep politics out of the appointments, made more than four years ago, has been kept, they said, and they noted that the Mayor had applied standards based on merit set by an independent review panel. (A1:1-3.) Nighttime transit police patrols between 8 P.M. and 4 A.M. will be resumed tonight after a two-year halt brought about by budget cuts and shifting crime patterns. The night patrols will be made up of 385 rookie officers and 34 newly promoted sergeants. (B1:-5-6.) Long delays in psychiatric transfers are frequent in New York City's acute-care municipal hospitals, according to a report being completed by the Health and Hospitals Corporation. It says that one-fifth of the beds for pyschiatric patients are being taken up by patients waiting many weeks for transfers to more appropriate and cheaper care elsewhere. 
