19820326
BRITAIN'S D'Oyly Carte Opera Company may have lapsed into suspended animation, but Gilbert and Sullivan in New York appears to be thriving.  The Light Opera of Manhattan -popularly known as LOOM - will give four performances of ''The Yeoman of the Guard'' this weekend and continue the run until April 4. Across town on the West Side, the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players - NYGaSP, for short - is presenting a total of five ''Ruddigores'' today, tomorrow and Sunday at the Symphony Space. And ''The Pirates of Penzance'' continues its merry way at the Minskoff on Broadway.  There is worldwide consternation over the closing of D'Oyly Carte, keeper of the Gilbert and Sullivan tradition for 106 years, but most Savoyards believe the demise is only temporary. The music's popularity does not seem to be the problem; full houses for performances in Britain have been commonplace. But D'Oyly Carte lost over $800,000 last year, and the British Arts Council refused to provide its usual grant. There were many complaints about the company's wooden, tradition-bound productions, seedy sets and worn costumes. Said one council member recently, ''The tradition has gone on too long in too rigid a way.''  Many Gilbert and Sullivan experts - including Albert Bergeret, artistic director of the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players, and William Mount-Burke, his counterpart at LOOM -feel that the British company will use the next year as an opportunity to regroup, refinance and revitalize. And both men feel that the need to balance the Gilbert and Sullivan tradition with the contemporary world.  ''Gilbert and Sullivan is not an anachronism,'' says Mr. Bergeret, ''And the updated Joseph Papp production of ''Pirates of Penzance'' that has been such a success is breeding a new group of followers. They come to us to see what the rest of the operas are like. It's even causing us problems in booking our tours. Colleges will say, 'We'd love to have you, but our students are doing a ''Pirates'' of their own this year.' ''  Mr. Mount-Burke is sure the tradition will live: ''The themes are universal, like Shakespeare's. They are about the human situation, the political world. The performer has only to say the lines as they are. The quality is there already. It's inherent in the work.''  ''Gilbert and Sullivan is classical in a beautifully clear way, but it's accessible to every kind of audience,'' says Mr. Bergeret of the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players. ''We attract families with children, senior citizens as well as the young people who have been turned on by the Papp production. The youth is also there in our performers. We are a young company -lots of aspiring professionals who have regional credits or are just out of college. The music is excellent material for young performers. It doesn't have the vocal strain of Wagner or Puccini, but it puts them on stage.'' Updating the Operettas  ''We do some updating on topical matters,'' says Mr. Bergeret. ''For example, in the 'List' song in our production of 'The Mikado,' we've brought in Presidents Nixon, Ford and Carter, added 'a judicial feminist' and the original 'lady novelist' can move to 'psychiatrist' or even 'peanut culturist.' ''  In matters of style, Mr. Mount-Burke says LOOM does not try to be British. ''We do try to make the vowel sounds consistent with a broader 'a' and without the American 'r,' '' he says, ''We have performers from all over the country, and there has to be agreement on these things. We don't, on the other hand, want to become affected.''  ''Ruddigore'' is not Gilbert and Sullivan at its most famous, and Mr. Bergeret acknowledges that he is taking ''somewhat of a chance'' in staging it. ''The big three are 'Pinafore,' 'The Mikado' and 'Pirates of Penzance,' he says, ''but 'Ruddigore' has a castle and a ghost scene; and the family portraits coming to life in one scene is one of the only technical effects that Gilbert and Sullivan ever planned. There is also a gavotte and country dancing. It was the first of the operas that specifically needed a choreographer.''  ''The Yeoman of the Guard'' is more widely known, and its setting -the Tower of London - has a special place in Mr. Mount-Burke's heart. ''I planned the staging 10 years ago sitting on the green by the tower with notes and a sketch pad. 'Yeoman' is heavier in context and there's a larger chorus. I think it's an exciting work.'' All Shapes and Sizes  Gilbert and Sullivan comes in all sizes and shapes in New York. Among the more substantial companies are the Barnard College Blue Hill Troupe, which is presenting ''Iolanthe'' April 6-10 at the Hunter College Playhouse, and the Village Light Opera Group. A newer company, the New Empire Players, will perform ''The Mikado'' in the Fashion Institute Theater, at Seventh Avenue and West 27th Street (896-0948), tonight and tomorrow at 8 and again April 3 and 4. All seats are $8.  Neither Mr. Bergeret nor Mr. Mount-Burke feels that there is direct competition. ''I'm not sure we're competing economically,'' says Mr. Bergeret. ''Artistically, we think we're better, but we've never had the press coverage LOOM has had. LOOM has appeal for the East Side as we think we do on the West. As for attracting talent, there are plenty of singers to go around. I get plenty of response every time I put an ad in the paper, and I have 200 people on my roster right now.''  Mr. Mount-Burke's situation is different. He founded his company in 1968. (Mr. Bergeret's group is eight years old.) The LOOM principals are members of Actors Equity and their age, which can range from 20 to 60, is determined by the appropriateness of the part. ''We do a repertory of 17 productions a year,'' says Mr. Mount-Burke. ''Audiences like to come and see the same players in different parts. Principals like Raymond Allen have been with the company for up to 12 years.'' LOOM uses piano, organ, percussion and occasional string players. The New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players operate with an orchestra of 25 young players.  The more companies the better, Mr. Mount-Burke says. ''It makes for a resurgence of interest, and each of us does the works a little bit differently. LOOM's prices are moderate, and we think we are attracting Broadway audiences who have trouble affording Broadway today.'' Bitten by the Bug Early  Both Mr. Bergeret and Mr. Mount-Burke were bitten by the Gilbert and Sullivan bug as children. After studying at Columbia and logging 10 years of experience in the singing, production and business end of the musical theater and opera, Mr. Bergeret began New York Gilbert and Sullivan in 1974 as a small street theater operating from the back of a truck. Now the group does 30 or 40 performances a year, plus a week of touring and scattered appearances by members of the company.  Mr. Mount-Burke studied organ and conducting at the Westminster Choir College and at the University of Miami. At one time he leaned toward a career in religious music, but Gilbert and Sullivan seems an irresistible force to its practitioners, and he does not seem to regret his choice.  ''Ruddigore'' performances this weekend at Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street, are at 8 tonight, at 3 and 8 tomorrow and at 2 and 7 on Sunday. Tickets are $7, $10 and $12. Call 977-9020 or 724-9159. ''The Yeoman of the Guard'' is at the Eastside Playhouse, 334 East 74th Street. Performances are tonight and tomorrow at 8:30 with matinees tomorrow and Sunday at 4. Prices are $7, $9.50 and $12. Call 861-2288.  Illustrations: photo of Raymond Allen photo of Maureen Born and William Thomas 
