19910115
 Saddam Watch: Embattled Iraqi Leader Grows More Isolated Amid Signs of Stress --- He Calls for `Faith Fighters' And Appears Distracted To Envoys Seeking Peace --- Puffy Eyes and Slow Speech   By By Geraldine Brooks and Tony Horwitz, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 16, 1991  For a decade, both Western and Arab leaders thought they knew the Iraqi ruler: ruthless and daring, grandiose in his ambitions, but ultimately capable of rational moves to ensure his survival. Now, with the deadline for war past, this traditional thinking has been shattered. The Saddam Hussein that the U.S.-led alliance confronts today appears to be either a man bent on martyrdom, like the suicidal warriors of ancient Masada, or a high-rolling gambler who has misread his cards.  In the days and weeks past, President Hussein has consistently failed to play any of a number of available trumps. A partial withdrawal from Kuwait might have secured him an oil field and access to the sea -- U.S. denials notwithstanding -- while dulling the alliance's appetite for war. A pullback in response to pleas from Palestinian or Islamic leaders, pleas he could easily have orchestrated, would have saved both his skin -- and his face. Even the slightest sign of flexibility in talks with Western leaders over the past week might have bought him time. Having ignored these options, he could have tried to lure Israel into a pre-emptive strike, almost certainly fracturing America's coalition with some of its Arab allies.  It is still possible the Iraqi ruler intends to face down the threat of U.S. might for a few days, then compromise and declare a symbolic victory -- a reckless strategy, but one consistent with the brinkmanship and survival instinct he has shown before. The United Nations secretary-general, though, returned from his mission to Baghdad hinting at a more alarming possibility. Javier Perez de Cuellar said Saddam Hussein appeared totally detached from the crisis at hand, uninterested in anything his visitor had to say, and even unable to focus on issues he himself has previously stressed. Instead, he seemed preoccupied with plying Mr. Perez de Cuellar with tea and coffee -- a strange departure for a man who earlier visitors report had little time for pleasantries.   
