19891206
 Shock Troops: AIDS Activist Group Harasses and Provokes To Make Its Point --- `Act-Up,' Gay and Yuppie, Uses Raids, Phone `Zaps' To Spotlight Health Crisis --- Intruders at Stock Exchange   By By Cynthia Crossen, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 7, 1989  While Act-Up follows in the tradition of many militant social movements -- pushing the rules and forcing confrontation -- it has also grown into something much more. In just two and a half years, it has transformed itself from a small hit squad of angry men to a guerrilla army with real political clout. Its New York chapter has spawned some 40 AIDS activist groups throughout the U.S. and abroad. Act-Up's mail-order business -- posters and T-shirts promoting the cause -- brings in $150,000 a year, and helps feed an annual budget of more than $500,000. The group has a slick direct-mail fund-raising campaign; its copying and fax machines are rarely still.  In so doing, the group has gained remarkable influence. Act-Up is partly credited with Burroughs Wellcome's recent decision, under extraordinary pressure, to reduce the price of its anti-AIDS drug, AZT. (The group's occupation of the drug maker's offices was meant to spotlight the pricing controversy, and resulted in the arrest of four.) Act-Up has also met with top executives from Bristol-Myers Co. to discuss that company's AIDS drugs. And, remarkably, members of Act-Up now are invited to sit on some of the government panels they once attacked.  Dr. Joseph incurred the wrath of Act-Up when he proposed that doctors be required to report positive AIDS tests to the state, and later when he reduced the city's estimate of the number of New Yorkers who carry the AIDS virus, a move Act-Up felt would result in less AIDS funding. Act-Up twice staged sit-ins in the bureaucrat's office, and flooded him with phone calls, some of which were obscene and threatening, Dr. Joseph claims. About 75 Act-Up members demonstrated in front of his Manhattan home, while others turned up at his public appearances carrying signs reading, "He's Lying." One especially tenacious demonstrator dogged Dr. Joseph outside a building where the official was about to speak, and finally ended up in the same wedge of revolving door.   
