19820518
MOSCOW, May 17— A top Soviet adviser flew to Warsaw today for talks with Polish leaders that the press agency Tass described as a ''friendly working visit.''  Konstantin V. Rusakov, a member of the nine-member secretariat of the Soviet Communist Party's Central Committee, is the most senior Soviet official to visit Poland since martial law was imposed there five months ago.  Tass said that an initial meeting between Mr. Rusakov and the Polish Communist Party leader, Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, had concentrated on ''questions of developing ties'' between the Polish and Soviet parties.  However, the timing of the visit, two weeks after the outbreak of major demonstrations in Warsaw and other Polish cities by supporters of the Solidarity labor union, suggested that Mr. Rusakov had been assigned to assess the Polish situation at first hand and to convey to the Warsaw leadership the serious view that the Kremlin takes of the renewed challenges to the Polish authorities.  Responsibility for Liaison  Mr. Rusakov, who is 72 years old, has responsibility within the Soviet party apparatus for liaison with allied Communist parties. After a wary approach in the initial period after the Polish military crackdown, the Soviet press adopted the line that Poland was gradually returning to ''normal,'' meaning that challenges from the remnants of the independent trade union Solidarity were declining and that the country's crippled economy was slowly picking up.  However, this line began to waver earlier this year and since the illegal demonstrations by Solidarity supporters on may day and in the days following there has been a return to some of the virulent propaganda that characterized Soviet reporting on Poland in the period before martial law.  The dominant theme, as before, has been that the ''wild scum'' who initiated the ''bacchanalia'' in Warsaw in early May, as Literaturnaya Gazeta put it in a commentary last week, did so at the behest of the United States and according to a ''script'' laid down by the Central Intelligence Agency. A Permanent Burden  The American purpose, it has been claimed, has been to foster ''domestic contradictions'' that would make Poland a permanent burden on the rest of the Soviet bloc, thus weakening the Soviet Union and making it a more pliant adversary in negotiations with the United States on arms and other issues.  One Tass commentary, quoting Polish officials, even suggested that ''another possible reason'' is ''to relegate to the background the shameful conflict over the Falkland Islands,'' in which Soviet propaganda has depicted the United States and Britain as defending ''imperialist'' interests.  A Tass commentary on President Reagan's speech last week in Eureka, Ill., said that Mr. Reagan's expression of concern over the events in Poland was ''nothing short of a cover-up for the incessant attempts of certain U.S. circles to encourage in every way the anti-socialist forces in Poland, to incite them to disrupt law and order and to raise artificial obstacles to the process of socioeconomic stabilization.''  The Tass commentator, Yuri Kornilov, dismissed Mr. Reagan's offer to join in a program of Western economic support for Poland if it lifted martial law, released political prisoners and resumed negotiations with Solidarity. Tass Commentator's View  ''Certain Washington politicians, obviously mistaking the Polish People's Republic for California or Texas, continue to 'teach' it how to organize its life and what sort of domestic policy to pursue,'' he said.  Such reporting suggests that the Kremlin may be no more disposed to back a resumption of political discussion with opposition elements in Poland now than it was when General Jaruzelski visited Moscow in March.  Diplomats following the situation here believe that the Soviet leadership is eager to get the Polish economy moving again before it drags the Soviet Union and other Eastern European countries into deeper economic trouble of their own.  The obvious choice would be some gesture towards Solidarity, but Soviet information outlets have made it plain that the Kremlin wants the complete elimination of the union in its old form.  Accordingly, Mr. Rusakov is thought likely to tell the Polish leaders that the elimination of opposition in any form must be the paramount objective before any further easing of martial law restrictions is considered. 
