19830817
WASHINGTON— The explosion of methane gas that ripped through a southwestern Virginia coal mine last June, killing seven miners and injuring three others, should have surprised nobody. The mine, McClure Coal Mine No. 1, had been cited 163 times in the previous nine months for violating health and safety rules; included in the citations were more than 30 for faulty ventilation of methane gas. And then, two weeks later, during the July 4 weekend, another methane-induced blast took the life of a Homer City, Pa., mine inspector.  The Reagan Administration has consistently ignored danger signals and failed to stringently enforce the Federal Mine Safety and Health Amendments Act of 1977. While meting out useless $20 fines for potentially dangerous, even deadly, health and safety violations, the Labor Department's Federal Mine Safety and Health Administration has virtually ignored its most meaningful tool: citations and fines for violations deemed ''significant and substantial,'' such as those that might lead to a cave-in, explosion, machine accident or electrical fire. In the last year of the Carter Administration, the Mine Safety and Health Administration issued 126,476 citations, of which 102,470, or 81 percent, were significant and substantial. During the first year of the Reagan Administration, 109,754 were issued, of which only 53,098, or 48 percent, were significant and substantial. In 1982, of 106,255 penalties, only 25,472, or 24 percent, were significant and substantial. Not satisfied with classifying 76 percent of all violations that occurred in 1982 as trivial, the Reagan Administration supports legislation that would eliminate even the minor infractions, instead sending only notices of violations to coal companies. The new bill - introduced last April at the Administration's request by Senator Donald L. Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma and chairman of the Subcommittee on Labor - would effectively emasculate the 1977 act, which was aimed at eliminating minor violations, making all citations significant and substantial and ''making it more economical for an operator to comply with the act's requirements than to pay the penalties assessed,'' according to a Senate report. No final action is expected on Mr. Nickles's bill until late fall or early winter. Evidently, the McClure disaster has done nothing to alter the ''business-as-usual'' mentality of the Administration, which wants to cut the Mine Safety and Health Administration's appropriation for fiscal year 1984 to $148 million, down from $157.7 million in 1980. In coal mine safety, squeaky wheels get the grease, although never enough to prevent further disasters. One of the worst accidents in history occurred in West Frankfort, Ill., four miles from my hometown, Benton. The mine blew four days before Christmas 1951, trapping and killing all 120 miners on the shift. The greatest disaster since West Frankfort was at Farmington, W. Va., in 1968, where 78 miners died.  The most severe loss of life in the United States in an underground mine explosion, 307, was suffered at Monogah, W. Va. in 1907. Each of these major tragedies brought some ameliorative action. After Monogah, the United States Bureau of Mines was created. The West Frankfort disaster led to the watered-down Federal Coal Mine Safety Act of 1952. The 1977 Act resulted from a series of explosions throughout the coal fields, which claimed nearly 100 lives. Sadly, the McClure explosion seems not to have made enough noise.  Why do men and women continue working in such a dangerous occupation? Many have no choice, because alternative jobs are scarce in coal country. And the pay is good. This year, the nation's 87,549 underground miners - down from 132,101 in 1982 - earn an average $107.32 a day for a five-day work week; nearly $28,000 a year goes a long way in mining towns.  Training for miners is inadequate. In a 1982 study, the National Academy of Sciences found that ''a major upgrading of the educational and training requirements of new and experienced miners, and also supervisors, is required (for) any substantial improvement in the safety of United States coal miners.'' The Academy called for doubling the required number of training hours. The Nickles bill calls for removing a specific number of required training hours, leaving the exact number to the discretion of the Secretary of Labor.The Pittston Company, which owns McClure, may lose $20 million in 1983, according to one stock analyst. With deficits like that, it is little wonder that Pittston and other loss-ridden coal companies will spend no more on coal mine safety than required. Regrettably, the Reagan Administration is doing all it can to make it easier for them to do nothing. 
