19820117
THEY are considered natural helpers - the homemakers, storekeepers and real-estate agents in every community who habitually reach out to others. And in an effort to reduce emotional stress by promoting prevention, the Westchester County Department of Community Mental Health has initiated an unusual program to strengthen the community network of such natural helpers in the county.  The program, which has already been put into effect in three northern Westchester communities, identifies ''natural helpers'' and provides a series of educational seminars to help them increase their skills. The ''natural-helper network'' concept has been judged successful enough that the county will begin a new series, for southern Westchester, next month in Hastings-on-Hudson.  Describing the teachers, nurses, truck drivers and business executives who have already completed the seminars, Lila Belanoff, the program coordinator, said: ''A natural helper is someone who reaches out to other people and who other people turn to.''  Dr. Leslie Borcq, a clinical psychologist and director of the Westchester Self-Help Clearinghouse, was instrumental in setting up the workshops. ''When you think of a natural helper,'' she said, ''you think of the housewife whom the kids visit after school. It's people like this whom others talk to about their problems. Only later do they come to us.'' The goal of the program ''is to strengthen people like that ho usewife,'' said Dr. Borcq, whose book, ''Learning Counseling and Pr oblem-Solving Skills,'' will be published by Haworth Press later th is year.  The series of six training sessions helps participants to enhance their listening skills, improve their ability to deal with problems, recognize when professional intervention is necessary and make appropriate referrals. The volunteer workshop trainers, in addition to Dr. Borcq, have included Dr. Samuel Klagsbrun, medical dire ctor of Four Winds Hospital, a private psychiatric treatment center in Katona; David Franzen, a personnel executive with Citibank; and Barbara Messe r, a psychiatric social worker.  The idea for the program began, Mrs. Belanoff said, as a response to ''the feeling of people being isolated.'' People in the northern part of Westchester, she observed, ''can't even see their neighbors. Many are relocatees, and others live alone because of family breakups.''  The program is partly based on research conducted by the Neighborhood and Family Services Project, a demonstration effort made three years ago in Baltimore and Milwaukee under the sponsorship of the University of Southern California's Washington Public Affairs Center. That four-year effort attempted to help community residents become more aware of their own strengths by creating a neighborhood ''mental health constituency.''  Many of the policy recommendations that emerged from the project were adopted by the 1978 Presidential Commission on Mental Health, and the Westchester natural helper network is an outgrowth of those recommendations.  The Westchester project began in May 1980 with a conference at St. Matthews Episcopal Church in Bedford, attended by 100 natural helpers representing schools, voluntary agencies and neighborhood associations that had been identified by a planning committee of community leaders.  Following this initial meeting, the Department of Community Mental Health held three series of six two-hour seminars limited to 16 participants. Those attending were not asked to act in any official capacity nor to take any special responsibilities as the result of their attendance. The desired outcome, program leaders said, has always been for participants to have a heightened sense of caring about neighbors and to be more supportive in reducing feelings of isolation in their communities.  The natural-helper graduates have continued to meet every six weeks to discuss their experiences. The problems the natural helpers encounter most frequently, they say, involve divorce and family concerns related to teen-agers or aging parents.  Frances Tighe, the most senior member of the original pilot seminar series, is a volunteer in the psychiatric department of Northern Westchester Hospital. Describing herself as ''a grandmother who seems to have been involved in a whole lot of helping programs,'' Mrs. Tighe said the program had taught her a great deal. ''A lot of my contemporaries seem to have horrendous problems with their children and with their marriages. I have always thought that I was a pretty good listener, but now I have learned what not to say and how not to give advice.''  Philip J. Franz, an architect in Mount Kisco, participated in the initial series of seminars at the invitation of his clergyman. Mr. Franz described his experience as ''the fastest two hours I've ever spent on a Wednesday night'' and said the skills he learned had been useful in communicating with his teen-aged children and in his business.  Describing a salesperson who visited his office recently, Mr. Franz said, ''I could sense something was wrong, and before long I had her whole life story.'' He has become a volunteeer trainer in the program and recently made a series of training films for the county detailing the natural-helper concept.  Margaret Normann, a Bedford resident, is the assistant supervisor of recreation for the town and a member of the natural-helper network. ''I am a nice, maternal kind of lady and people have always brought me their problems,'' Mrs. Normann said. ''Very often, I didn't know what to do with those problems. My background is in drama and public relations. However, I had an elderly person coming for recreation programs who was very depressed because he was taking conflicting medications, and I've had kids come in who have obviously been abused.'' She said her participation in the natural-helper program has improved her skills and has given her a useful network for referrals.  Mrs. Normann said she had been surprised to learn the county would sponsor such a program as natural helpers. ''Their trust is in prevention, and that's so hard to measure,'' Mrs. Normann said. ''But the need for caring is so great these days.''  For more information, the County Department of Community and Mental Health can be contacted by telephoning 682-3135. Tessa Melvin 
