20011202
 Sony CEO Affirms Commitment To Music and Movies Businesses   By By Wall Street Journal staff reporters Robert A. Guth in Tokyo, Martin Peers in New York and John Lippman in Los Angeles, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 3, 2001  Sony's recent maneuvers have been closely watched by the folks at News Corp., who are curious about what is on Mr. [Nobuyuki Idei]'s mind. So Mr. [Rupert Murdoch], News Corp.'s chairman, asked to meet with Mr. Idei when the Sony CEO was visiting New York this week for his regularly scheduled "midrange" planning meetings. Mr. Murdoch wanted to discuss "possible collaboration with Fox and Columbia Pictures," Mr. Idei explains. But after The Wall Street Journal inquired about the meeting, Mr. Idei abruptly called off the tete-a-tete.  Despite high-profile hits like "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" and "Charlie's Angels," Sony remains primarily a consumer-electronics company, deriving 70% of its revenues from building products like Walkmans and Vaio personal computers. The health of the electronics business over the past decade has helped Sony weather the ups and downs of the hit-driven entertainment industry. But this year's global economic downturn dried up demand for its products, leaving Sony's electronics business with a loss of 25.7 billion yen ($20.7 million) in the six months through Sept. 30. Sony says the crash of the electronics business will be the main factor behind its forecast net profit of just 10 billion yen for the full year ending March 31, 2002. At the same time, Sony's music business, one of the biggest music companies in the world, has had an unusually tough year, in part because of a downturn in much of the global music market.  Sony has periodically considered taking its entertainment operations public. Mr. Idei has been a strong proponent of the combination of electronics and entertainment. After becoming president in 1995, he reorganized Sony's movie business and pushed Sony into a range of Internet-related services. The moves followed Mr. Idei's belief that Sony should have a strong revenue stream flowing from Internet-related entertainment services that would be tightly coupled with Sony's electronics products.   
