20030106
 Rebuilding Lower Manhattan: `Don't Blame the Architects': Designs Are Visionary, but the Process Is Business as Usual   By By Ada Louise Huxtable, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 7, 2003  If density is the soul of the city, this is its spiritual or, better, commercial apotheosis. How else could all that square footage be accommodated? It is achieved in some marvelously creative ways. The British architect Norman Foster's triangulated twin towers meet and "kiss" as they rise; the group called Think uses Rafael Vignoly's steel and glass geometry for latticed towers or a vast public room; United Architects' massed, canted buildings create a computerized, cathedral-like image. Four of the participants project the tallest building in the world. Height is an aphrodisiac to architects; they lust after it. That soaring something on the skyline, a problematic feature at best, set off an orgy of megalithic excess.  One design breaks the rules and sets the priorities straight. Daniel Libeskind's powerful concept does not beg the issue of the memorial; it is the centerpiece of his proposal. Mr. Libeskind has done what he does superbly, like no one else, as anyone who has visited his Jewish Museum in Berlin knows; he has perfected an intensely individual, profoundly moving architecture of memory and loss of unsurpassed impact and meaning. The design struck a common nerve; one had the sense, at the presentation, of an end to an undefined yearning and search. You could tell by the sustained applause and tears that this is what people really wanted, and what New York needs.  Mr. Libeskind takes you down 70 feet to bedrock, the real Ground Zero, where the slurry wall holding back the Hudson River looms like some overwhelming, archaic survival. In the void, he builds a museum out of the jagged shards and symbolic spaces that characterize his architecture, and that pierce the soul as much as any memorabilia. There are two public places -- a Park of Heroes, and a Wedge of Light. In an annual commemorative ritual tied to sun and sky, a shaft of light will illuminate the void between the time of the first and second attacks. An elevated walkway circles the site. The area is served by a transportation center that forms a nexus of commercial and cultural activities. Buildings at its borders could be designed and phased according to market demand. A fractured tower rises 1,776 feet with a spine containing "gardens of the world." But Mr. Libeskind proves that depth, rather than height, has a supernaturally commanding presence.   
