19811029
WHAT can be getting into these novelists anyway? A month or so ago, in the Sunday Magazine section of this newspaper, John Fowles was worrying out loud about the possible effect that the film version of his novel ''The French Lieutenant's Woman'' would have on the novel itself. He wasn't fretting, you understand, about the fate of the film as a film; he was concerned that the film, whether it turned out well or badly, would somehow and forever overshadow the book he'd written, supersede it, damage it, deface it, or perhaps just take its place in the public mind.  ''One fear all writers have,'' he was saying, ''is that the film will completely deluge the book, and the book will be forgotten.'' He then proceeded to offer himself some small comfort in the thought that the novel had already been popular for so long that it just might survive its own competition. But he was wary, very wary. Biting his nails.  Now, in Variety, I read that a new dramatization of an old Agatha Christie novel, ''Cards on the Table,'' is scheduled to open in London during the next month or so, but that it won't be entirely faithful to the novel Dame Agatha wrote. At, apparently, the late Dame Agatha's request. In book form, ''Cards on the Table'' featured the detective novelist's best-known detective, Hercule Poirot. The play won't. Why must the adapter, Leslie Darbon, remove so ostentatiously vital a force from the narrative, punch a hole of such dimensions in the plot? Because the author's estate insists.  According to Variety, ''Christie apparently had a fixed image of the character and was reluctant to have it violated by portrayals in other media.'' Afraid the new look might stick, you see, and erase the image her words had created. Of course, Hercule Poirot has turned up on film before this -most notably in ''Murder on the Orient Express,'' with Albert Finney so eagerly duplicating Dame Agatha's description of her sleuth that he quite obliterated himself - and Variety duly makes note of the fact. ''Some major film releases seem to have been exempt from this eccentricity,'' it says before lapsing into a bewildered silence, obviously unable to explain the inconsistency.  I don't blame it for being bewildered. This whole silly notion that a film image - even the most vivid of film images - can ever be commanding enough to wipe out the written word has baffled me for many a long year. I first came across it when some people I knew were desperately trying to get the motion-picture rights to Willa Cather's ''My Antonia.'' Obviously ''My Antonia'' might have made a fine film. To be sure, it might also have emerged a dog, given Murphy's Law and some film maker's affinity for disaster. It turned out, however, that we were never going to know which, because Miss Cather wasn't having any. No adaptations, not for film or stage, nothing.  Curious, I tried to track down the sources of her intransigence and learned that she had, in fact, sold one novel, ''A Lost Lady,'' to films, only to see it done badly twice, the first time as a silent film, the second as a talkie. Apparently she'd then sworn off, having become as fearful as Fowles that the body of her work might be in jeopardy. She wasn't as philosophical about the matter as her contemporary Thornton Wilder became. Mr. Wilder had survived two equally inept picture versions of ''The Bridge of San Luis Rey'' and noticed that the book remained on the shelves, virginal and imperturbable, not a whit the worse for what some strange people have done to it in a strange medium half a world away.  In fact, if film versions could reach out and overwhelm or otherwise corrupt the literary sources they rise and depart from, Tolstoy would be in terrible trouble today. It's not just ''War and Peace'' that's been mauled to a fare-thee-well. Think of poor ''Anna Karenina'' and the varying film fates she's met, including one wrapup in which Karenin obligingly died so that Anna could forget about train schedules and fall forever into Vronsky's waiting arms.  No, no, no. These things don't hurt. If they're bad, they vanish without a trace. If good, they increase the paperback sales. I'd say that a novelist is well-advised to take the loot and then, if he's sensitive, just not look. And he must be calm and not worry. It's film that is ephemeral, not those fine sturdy words.  Last spring the young actor (Brian Backer) who was more or less playing Woody Allen's memory of himself as a lad in ''The Floating Light Bulb'' had a line of dialogue that stuck in my ear. The boy was rehearsing the magic tricks that were his sole accomplishment and chief claim to identity. With his younger brother assisting, he palmed the usual cards and popped out the usual bursting flowers and - of course - suspended a light bulb in nothingness. He also tucked an egg beneath his arm, pretended to summon some of his listeners forward to act as aides and witnesses, and then turned them into sheepish stooges as he did a few mystifying things with the egg. At which point he halted abruptly, appalled by his own behavior. ''I've made a sucker out of the audience!'' he cried, clapping his hand over his mouth in penitence and dismay. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
