19820527
WASHINGTON, May 26— After run-ins with with such powerful personages as Ronald Reagan and Darth Vader, the Senate Republican fund raisers are test-marketing a newly revised campaign brochure.  Quick as an out-take, Senator Bob Packwood, the Oregon Republican who, because of his public criticism of the President, has been so nettlesome to the White House, has been obliterated as Mr. Reagan's co-star in the glossy color photograph on the brochure of the Republican Presidential Task Force.  The altered photo presents exactly the same friendly White House scene as does the earlier one, with Mr. Reagan offering exactly the same warm smile from the same armchair. But the newly dubbed-in recipient of the smile is the Senate Republican majority leader, Howard H. Baker Jr.  After eight million old brochures had been circulated, party pressure against Mr. Packwood, who is chairman of the Senate Republican Campaign Committee, increased and touched off threats of a fall-off in funds. A final batch of the brochures was discarded, and Senator Baker, who personally does not like the sort of direct-mail pins, flags and paper honors promised to task force donors, agreed to step in to keep the funds coming in. Medal, Pin, Flag and Card  ''Howard's no fan of Captain Midnight decoder rings and that approach,'' said one Senate worker, referring to the task force's elaborate and successful campaign of offering donors a ''medal of honor'' and lapel pin, a ceremonial American flag, an embossed membership card, plus, for those who act promptly, a promise to be listed ''forever'' with the Reagan Presidential papers, as well as an ''insider's'' briefing letter originally called ''The Force.''  In the new brochure the briefing letter has been retitled ''The New Force'' to deal with a complaint from Darth Vader Enterprises, the company that markets gimcracks based on the movie ''Star Wars,'' which featured a magical power called The Force.  Senator Packwood lost his place of honor in the Presidential task force packet after stirring the enmity of the White House and party loyalists when he publicly complained that the President's policies were alienating blacks, women, Jews and others by presenting idealized, anecdotal views of complicated problems.  As a political device, the fate of being chiseled from a place of prominence is at least as old as the rivalries of the Pharaohs, and Senator Packwood had no comment to offer about his paper exile.  Otherwise, the basic wording of the original packet has been repeated, although the main pitch for $120 a year is now above the signature of Senator Baker, rather than Mr. Reagan because White House political aides objected to what they viewed as the crass use of the President's prestige. Instead, a separate note is included over the President's signature, with no mention of money, but a call to defeat ''those who would shortchange our destiny.''  ''If the liberals win, America loses - it's that simple,'' the President pleads.  Illustrations: photo of President Reagan and Bob Packwood photo of President Reagan and Howard Baker Jr. 
