19820112
An agreement between the New York state and city corrections departments ends a bitter feud over so-called ''state readies'' - the inmates who are sentenced to state prison but remain in city jails. But the dispute was a compelling reminder that, temporary relief notwithstanding, prison crowding grows worse each day. The need for a more basic remedy persists.  When a Federal judge ordered the state to remove convicted inmates from city jails within 48 hours of sentencing, Thomas Coughlin, the state's commissioner of correctional services, refused to comply. With 25,000 inmates, he said, his system is already an ominous 12 percent over capacity. Until 1,300 new cells open in March, taking in more would jeopardize inmates' lives.  The city responded that its jails were dangerously crowded too, and that the city shouldn't bear the whole burden of the state's crowding problem. Let upstate counties hold prison-bound convicts a little longer, the city argued, or let the state release some inmates a few weeks early.  The settlement is a compromise. The state had wanted to keep up to 300 inmates in city jails beyond the 48-hour limit; the agreement lets it keep 150 in the jails for up to seven days, reimbursing the city at the daily rate of $59 per person.  An end of this feud is welcome; managers of the troubled jails and prisons should be working together rather than clashing in court. A more comprehensive solution should be the next or der of business.  One answer, a major prison expansion program, was rejected last November when voters narrowly defeated a $500 million bond issue. That made a new plan even more urgent. A comprehensive one would combine a more modest construction appropriation - which does not require voter approval - with other measures to keep prison population growth under better control.  Governor Carey has apparently given the problem serious thought. He promised this week to earmark $77 million for new cells. He also mentioned ways to contain the flood of inmates: a program to keep non-dangerous offenders working in communities; special facilities to house minor parole violators rather than automatically returning them to prison, and financial incentives to put a larger number of nonviolent offenders on probation.  The Governor is to elabo rate on these ideas in a few weeks. The Legislature should give them the urgent atten tion they deserve. 
