19810515
JERUSALEM, May 14— A pilotless Israeli reconnaissance plane was shot down by a Syrian missile today over the Bekaa Valley of eastern Lebanon, provoking an unexpected return to Israel by President Reagan's special envoy, Philip C. Habib.  Mr. Habib, who has been shuttling between Lebanon, Syria and Israel for the last week, spent three hours today with President Hafez al-Assad of Syria. There was no sign of progress in his efforts to resolve the crisis over Syria's deployment of antiaircraft missiles in Lebanon.  When he left Israel yesterday for Beirut he was not expected back until tomorrow. But he cut short his stay in the Lebanese capital for a quick visit to Damascus to see President Assad and then returned to Israel to talk with Prime Minister Menachem Begin.  No Comment on the Talks  Mr. Habib and Mr. Begin met in Tel Aviv for 90 minutes. The American envoy made no statement afterward and there was no word on his next move.  Syria moved batteries of Soviet-made antiaircraft missiles into Lebanon April 29, a day after Israeli jets shot down two Syrian heliopters. Damascus has continued to reject Israeli demands that the missiles be pulled out.  Missiles were fired Tuesday at Israeli reconnaissance planes but missed, according to an Israeli military spokesman. Today, a drone of a type used by Israel for aerial photography and other surveillance was struck by a missile that, Mr. Begin said, was fired from Lebanese territory. Syria downed a similar craft a year and a half ago. 'A Very Serious Event'  Although it was a pilotless plane and nobody was hurt,'' Mr. Begin told reporters, ''the fact is that it was shot down by the Syrians with a SAM-6 missile which they deployed in Lebanon. It's a very serious event because it proves how dangerous those missiles are for our other flights, and therefore it is my duty to inform Mr. Habib that this development proves our thesis that the missiles are dangerous to our national security.''  Mr. Habib was understood to have asked Israel to determine carefully whether the missiles posed a threat. The Israeli Deputy Defense Minister, Mordechai Zipori, said of the Syrians: ''I think they are looking for trouble. I hope that everything will be settled in a diplomatic way, and that's what we are trying to do.''  In his travels, Mr. Habib is reported to have attempted to work out an informal understanding in which all sides would return to the situation that existed before the flare-up in Lebanon.  This would mean a halt in the efforts by the Lebanese Christian Phalangists to strengthen and expand their positions -efforts regarded by Syria as a threat to its supply lines between Damascus and Beirut. It would mean withdrawal of the Syrian missiles from Lebanon and of Syrian troops from the Sannin heights, a mountain ridge that the Israelis contend gives Syrians control of the Christian port of Junieh, the only entry point for Israeli arms to the Phalangists. Restraints on the Israelis  By implication, a return to the prior situation would mean some Israeli restraint in the air - not an abandonment of reconnaissance flights, which Israel regards as essential to keep track of both Syrian and Palestinian activity near its northern border, but a halt in Israeli air attacks on Syrian positions.  Such an arrangement has worked until recently, since Syrian troops first entered Lebanon in 1976 as members of an Arab force assigned to police the cease-fire.  As time passed, pressure has grown on Mr. Begin for a resolution of the crisis. Discontent over the Government's performance appears to have risen in recent days, both among those who see a military liability in further delays, which have allowed Syria to move additional missiles into the area and among those who accuse Mr. Begin of dragging Israel toward an unnecessary confrontation. Peres Is Urging Caution  Shimon Peres, leader of the opposition Labor Party, visited Israel's northern settlements today and held a news conference on the Israeli-Lebanese frontier, pleading for caution and an exhaustive pursuit of diplomatic alternatives to military action. ---- Assad Said to Rebuff Proposals Special to the New York Times  DAMASCUS, Syria, May 14 - President Assad met here this morning for three hours with Mr. Habib, and he was reported by Western and Arab diplomatic sources to have resisted the American envoy's proposals.  Foreign Minister Abdel-Halim Khaddam, in an interview tonight with the London-based publication The Middle East, said that Syria ''will not remove the missiles under pressure from the Israelis or anyone else.''  Illustrations: photo of Street in Lebanon 
