19820425
The values of ''Malou,'' the first feature to be written and directed by Jeanine Meerapfel, a German film maker, reveal themselves unexpectedly, much like those of a friendship with someone who initially seems demanding and self-centered but whose genuine decency and intelligence become evident with time. The film will be shown today at the Festival Theater at 8:30 P.M. and tomorrow at 6 P.M. in the New Directors/New Films series.  Hannah (Grischa Huber), otherwise a happily married young woman, is obsessed by the memory of her French-born mother Malou (Ingrid Caven), a mysterious figure, long dead, who existed entirely at the mercy of the men in her life. Hannah loves her husband Martin (Helmut Greim), an ambitious German architect, but resents her commitment to him. She doesn't want to wind up the sodden, emotional wreck that Malou was when she finally died in Buenos Aires in 1967.  Hannah is not especially appealing at first. She is moody, willful and sarcastic. One day, without warning, she sets out to find the ghost of Malou by visiting the places where her mother lived and worked before meeting Hannah's father. It's not an easy search, because Malou's stories were often contradictory. In some stories she works as a maid for a wealthy French family. In others she has some small fame and following as a nightclub chanteuse. Always, however, she is dependent on the kindness of men.  Miss Meerapfel's screenplay takes place on three levels - in the reality of the present and Hannah's marriage, in Hannah's fantasies about Malou, and in Hannah's own memories of her childhood.  Malou's fate is a graceful disintegration in booze and despair through her trust in men who treat her badly. As a young woman, working in a nightclub in Strasbourg, she meets Paul Kahn (Ivan Desny), a wealthy German Jewish businessman, who takes Malou to visit his parents, marries her and sets her up in a life of genteel boredom. In return for this security, Malou gives up, as she puts it, her language and her religion.  With the rise of the Nazis, Paul becomes increasingly absorbed by his efforts to get Jews out of Germany until, finally, he must go into exile with Malou, first to Amsterdam and then to Buenos Aires, where Hannah grows up. In Argentina, Paul casually drops Malou for a younger woman.  Miss Caven, who has been seen here in a number of Rainer Werner Fassbinder films, is a beauty, and her Malou is a spirited, lost woman who must consciously work to achieve the sort of passivity that she understands is expected of her. Just how much of the character we see on the screen, in fantasies and flashbacks, is Malou as she actually was or how much is her daughter's imagination is never certain. That eventually is beside the point of the film, which is less about Malou than about Hannah's efforts to come to some understanding about her own self.  All of the performances are good, but Miss Huber's is particularly effective. The role of Hannah is not written in a way that invites casual sympathy. She is difficult and abrasive but, finally, comprehensible.  The Cast  MALOU, written (German with English subtitles) and directed by Jeanine Meerapfel; camera, Michael Ballhaus; edited by Dagmar Hirtz; music by Peer Raben; produced by Regina Ziegler Filmproduktion; presented by the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the department of film of the Museum of Modern art. At the Festival Theater, 57th Street and Fifth Avenue, New Directors/New Films Series. Running time: 93 minutes. This film has no rating.  Malou . . . . . Ingrid Caven  Hannah . . . . . Grischa Huber  Martin . . . . . Helmut Griem  Paul . . . . . Ivan Desny  Lotte . . . . . Marie Colbin  Albert . . . . . Peter Chatel  Lucia . . . . . Margarita Calahorra  Paul's father . . . . . Lo van Hensbergen  Paul's mother . . . . . Liane Saalborn  Hannah, 12 years old . . . . . Cordula Riedel  Uncle Max . . . . . Jim Kain  WITH: Dietrich Mattausch, Winnetou Kamp- mann, Heidi Speisser, Peer Raben, Estrongo Nahama, Carl Duering, Antonio Skarmeta, Con- stanza Lira, Angela Villaroel, Gerhard Hesse, Michael Boehme, Friedbert Rometsch, Rein- hardt vom Bauer, Freidhelm Lehmann, H.H. Muller, Annemarie Geyer. 
