20031020
 Leading from the Front   By Mulroney, Brian, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 21, 2003  It is out of these new realities that the doctrine of unilateral pre-emption -- so condemned by many allies -- emerged. I believe an accurate translation of the doctrine is this: "If the U.S. has persuasive evidence that a country is either contemplating an attack on the U.S. or its allies, or harboring terrorists who might strike out at the U.S. or its allies, then the U.S. will -- with Security Council approval or without -- pre-emptively act to remove the offending government from office." And why is this doctrine so offensive to so many? Some fear the precedent, others the erosion of multilateralism, and others still a negative impact upon the United Nations.  Nothing is gained from non-participant allies smirking on the sidelines, whispering "I told you so." The recent Security Council resolution marked a promising beginning, introducing both realism and support into the equation at the council level for the first time since hostilities began. America now greatly needs allies who can re- establish a basis of mutual trust and candor. Not fair-weather friends who are on its side when times are easy but invisible when the great challenges come. True allies must now -- in spite of some legitimate misgivings -- come to the assistance of the U.S.-led alliance by showing cooperation both at the U.N. and in Iraq. After all, the U.S. has come frequently to the assistance of these very same countries in the past, and as Canada's founding prime minister, Sir John A. MacDonald, once said, only partly in jest: "I need friends with me not when they think I'm right but when they think I'm wrong."  In my judgment, the U.S. should instigate and lead a "San Francisco II," a major reform effort to establish new multilateral approaches that respect the principles of the U.N. Charter. It is vital for Europe, for Japan, for Canada and the world as a whole that the U.S. remains fully engaged as the bulwark for multilateralism. Without U.S. engagement, there can be no truly effective multilateral effort. But, without close support and unvarnished counsel from its key allies, the U.S. will inevitably exercise its own will and choose the course of least resistance.   
