20020115
 Instinet Faces Pressure in a Competitive Arena   By By Kate Kelly and Stephanie Gruner, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 16, 2002  To some degree, Instinet is a victim of its own success. For three decades, Instinet had a virtual monopoly in the alternative trading market, becoming a fixture on Wall Street trading desks. But as the stock market boomed in the late 1990s, a handful of aggressive new players began vying for a piece of Instinet's business. Analysts say Instinet failed to keep up with the new companies' innovations, including cheaper user fees. Instead of upgrading its core product, Instinet began offering new services like bond trading and independent stock research.  For Instinet to viably compete, those changes had better be around the corner. Not only has Island surpassed Instinet for Nasdaq market share, a third ECN, the trading platform run by Archipelago Holdings, intends to merge with one of its rivals, Redibook ECN, deepening Archipelago's pool of liquidity, or ease of trading, for investors. Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Stock Market, which competes with the ECNs for trading market share, is in the midst of rolling out its souped-up new platform, SuperMontage. And the National Association of Securities Dealers, Nasdaq's longtime parent, will establish its own stock-quoting and trade-reporting system when it spins off Nasdaq, as soon as this year.  Instinet's woes could spell trouble for Reuters, its main owner. While Instinet has historically accounted for about 25% of Reuters' revenue, the business over the past six years has contributed 55% of top-line sales growth, according to analyst Michael Nathanson at Sanford C. Bernstein. In last year's first half, Instinet made up one-third of Reuters' operating profit. With Instinet floundering, Reuters' own earnings and shares could suffer. "The worry is that as you head into 2002, there could be further downgrades to Reuters' numbers as analysts realize the slowdown in Instinet's business," says Mr. Nathanson.   
