19820118
Hundreds of bridge players heading for the Tristate Regional Championships at the Rye Town Hilton, Port Chester, N.Y. had reason to curse the snow that blanketed the New York metropolitan area last week, but for two players the storm became an unexpected blessing.  When play began Wednesday night, a quartet planning to play in the women's Swiss teams was at half strength because two players were caught in the general traffic chaos. Irene Schwartz of Suffern, N.Y., and Renee Blank of Spring Valley, N.Y., began the event as temporary substitutes and ended up as winners, along with Rita Rand, New York; Pamela Bridson, Toronto; Joyce Lilie, Woodmere, L.I., and Lisa Berkowitz of Secaucus, N.J.  Other winners were: Men's Swiss Teams - La rry Goldberg, Philadelphia; Cliff Tielis, Richard Plu mer and Peter Deutsch, all New York. Women's Pairs - Joan De Witt, Chicago, and Esta Van Zandt, Houston. Men's Pairs - Al Rand and Matt Granovetter, New York.Open Pairs - Flight A, Larry Goldberg, Philadelphia, and Cliff Tielis, New York; Flight B, Arnold Goldstein, Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Burt Lipsky , Scarsdale, N.Y.; Flight C, Mary and Hans Enard, Westfield, N.J.  The winners of the women's Swiss teams were aided by the diagramed deal, which was considerably more difficult than might appear. The reader should consider how the heart suit should be handled, other things being equal, if four tricks are required. Opening Bid Is Artificial  The North player was Mrs. Rand, completing a family double, and South was Miss Bridson. The opening bid of one club was strong and artificial, showing at least 18 high-card points, and the response showed at least 11 points with good controls.  The slam was a borderline proposition, but became a little better when a diamond was led since the spade suit was still controlled. South needed five club tricks and four heart tricks, or, less likely, five heart tricks and four club tricks.  South won the first trick with the diamond king and correctly led a low heart. When the jack appeared, she won with the ace in dummy. She cashed the club king, just in case this revealed a 5-0 break, but could not afford to test that suit further. She led a low heart, giving up the chance of five tricks in that suit, and eventually made four hearts, five clubs, two diamonds and the spade ace.  What South would or should have done if West had played low on the first heart lead is far from clear. Percentage Calls for Finesse  If South did not have the heart eight, the percentage play to make four tricks would be to finesse twice. The eight, however, makes an alternative play a fraction better, and South should play to the ace and follow with the king, winning if East has a singlton honor.  This is not quite, however, the right play on this deal. South should finesse the nine, with the chance to make five heart tricks and four club tricks in some circumstances. NORTH(D) S Q 5 H A K 10 9 3 D A 7 2 C K Q 3 WEST EAST S K J 10 9 3 S 8 7 4 H J H Q 7 6 5 4 D Q J 10 5 3 D 8 4 C 5 4 C J 10 2 SOUTH S A 6 2 H 8 2 D K 9 6 C A 9 8 7 6 Neither side was vulnerable. The bidding: North East South West 1 C Pass 1 N.T. Pass 2 H Pass 3 C Pass 4 C Pass 4 S Pass 4 N.T. Pas s 5 H Pass 6 N.T. Pass Pass Pass  West led the diamond queen.  Illustrations: Diagram of a bridge hand 
