20020806
 Executive Privilege: How Tyco's CEO Enriched Himself --- Mr. Kozlowski, Ex-Chief, Got Secret Loans, Spent Firm's Cash as His Own --- A $6,000 Shower Curtain   By By Mark Maremont and Laurie P. Cohen, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 7, 2002  Before he stepped down, Mr. [L. Dennis Kozlowski] had been hailed by Wall Street as a management guru who cracked the secret of running a successful, lean conglomerate. At their peak early last year, Tyco shares had soared more than 14-fold from when Mr. Kozlowski took the helm a decade ago. That image began to crumble when Tyco's aggressive accounting practices were first questioned more than two years ago. Although Tyco's stock has rebounded slightly in recent weeks, it is still down nearly 80% since the start of this year amid questions about the company's liquidity and heavy debt load, and the management turmoil surrounding Mr. Kozlowski's abrupt departure. Tyco's stock closed yesterday at $12.76, up 17 cents in 4 p.m. composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  A person speaking on Mr. Kozlowski's behalf vehemently disputes that Mr. Kozlowski misspent Tyco funds for personal benefit or that he knows of any forgiven loans. This person says Mr. Kozlowski entrusted his financial interactions with Tyco -- including his loans -- to company employees, and assumes they accounted for his finances accurately. This person also says Tyco is holding all of Mr. Kozlowski's personal financial records and that he is unable to recall details of many transactions without them. For instance, this person says, the Sardinia trip was timed to coincide with a Tyco subsidiary's board meeting at the same resort, and that Mr. Kozlowski told subordinates he was responsible for all the non-Tyco expenses associated with the trip and assumes the subordinates allocated them properly.  A person speaking on Mr. Kozlowski's behalf vehemently disputes that Mr. Kozlowski misspent Tyco funds for personal benefit or that he knows of any forgiven loans. This person says Mr. Kozlowski entrusted his financial interactions with Tyco -- including his loans -- to company employees, and assumes they accounted for his finances accurately. This person also says Tyco is holding all of Mr. Kozlowski's personal financial records and that he is unable to recall details of many transactions without them. For instance, this person says, the Sardinia trip was timed to coincide with a Tyco subsidiary's board meeting at the same resort, and that Mr. Kozlowski told subordinates he was responsible for all the non-Tyco expenses associated with the trip and assumes the subordinates allocated them properly.   
