20070904
 The Morning Brief: A Host of Issues Made in China Online edition  By Schuman, Joseph, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 5, 2007  A host of trade and political issues were already on the bilateral agenda for two of APEC's most powerful members, but reports of an alleged Chinese cyber attack on Pentagon computers this week provided a concrete focus for the simmering tension. The Pentagon hasn't confirmed or denied reports that it suspects the Chinese military was behind the breach, but President Bush was asked in Sydney if he would bring it up with Chinese President Hu Jintao. "In terms of whether or not I'll bring this up to countries that we suspect may -- from which there may have been an attack, I may," he replied, adding that "in this instance, I don't have the intelligence at my fingertips right now." As Mr. Bush went on to say, the Sino-American relationship is complex. "Whether it be this issue, or issues like intellectual property rights, I mean, if you have a relationship with a country, then you've got to respect the country's systems and knowledge base," he said. "And that's what we expect from people with whom we trade."  From Beijing, Washington wants more consumption of American goods, more social support for a middle class, and looser currency restrictions that could help reduce the huge U.S. trade deficit, as Mr. Bush reiterated. The president said that, as usual, he'd express concerns over imprisoned political dissidents, the Chinese treatment of Tibet and Beijing's support for Sudan over Darfur. "It's best to be able to discuss these issues in an environment that is frank and open and friendly, as opposed to one in which there's tension and suspicion," Mr. Bush said. "And so when I say we've got great relations, I will sit down with the President and have a good honest, candid discussion, and he's going to tell me what's on his mind and I'm darned sure going to tell him what's on my mind."  One bilateral issue Mr. Bush didn't mention, and one with implications more commercial than policy-oriented, is nonetheless making a lot of headlines: safety concerns about Chinese products and especially toys. Mattel has announced its third massive recall of Chinese-made toys in five weeks, and this time even Barbie's carrying the taint of child-threatening lead paint. The latest recall involves more than 840,000 items, including more than 500,000 shipped to American stores as long ago as August of last year and as recently as last month, the Los Angeles Times reports. Safety fears across the consumer spectrum this year have ratcheted up anxiety about the rise of Chinese manufacturing, which was already under fire for its effects on American factory workers (even as it benefited American retailers). As they had on currency issues and other trade policies, U.S. lawmakers have begun to explore legislative responses. And as the New York Times reports, China has launched "its most concerted global public relations offensive since the outbreak of SARS." This includes the introduction of a new food-and-toy recall system in China and a highly publicized crackdown on, for instance, factories producing counterfeit drugs.   
