19961213
 Inverted Web: How Net Is Becoming More Like Television To Draw Advertisers --- Rather Than Clicking Pages, Users View `Channels' Broadcast to the Desktop --- Selling Pants on PointCast   By By David Bank, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 13, 1996  That was tailor-made for Ms. Friedman's pants campaign. "Today you can't be guaranteed that people are going to come to your Web site," she says. But PointCast promised instead to deliver Slates's 30-second commercials directly to people, right in their offices; Ms. Friedman quickly signed up for a three-month, $100,000 run. "It's like reaching through someone's TV screen when they're hungry and giving them popcorn," she says. Ms. Friedman says she is pleased with the results: Thousands of users have clicked through to a mini-Web site that has a questionnaire for customers and a list of locations where the pants are sold.  Ever since the Internet burst into prominence a few years ago, it has been a medium in search of a viable business model. Now it has found one: television. Driven by advertisers' need for a predictable, quantifiable audience, the Web is being inverted: Web "surfers" who sift through oceans of data to "pull" what they want are giving way to Web "viewers," who have highly customized information "pushed" directly to their PCs. As the "push" trend takes hold, the now-familiar Web browser is likely to be replaced by a channel selector.  Of course, the Internet has spawned high hopes for commercial success before and failed to deliver. Still, at least a dozen start-ups are crowding PointCast to offer broadcast capabilities over the Internet and corporate Intranets. Next year, the big boys will get into the game. Both Microsoft Corp. and Netscape Communications Corp. plan to turn users' main desktop screens into platforms for receiving Internet broadcasts, and Microsoft on Wednesday chose PointCast as the first "premier" channel on its new desktop. "It's the Internet for couch potatoes," said Brad Chase, a vice president in Microsoft's Internet group.   
