19811209
WASHIN GTON— The United States has been much alarmed in recent weeks by what it feels to be an emerging totalitarian face of the Nicaraguan revolution - by the imprisonment of three dissident businessmen and a number of Communists, and the temporary closing of the respected paper La Prensa, which has reopened. What the United States does not realize is that its continuing mistrust of the revolution might be pushing the Sandinist Government to the left and forcing it, in spite of itself, to use just the kind of measures that the United States finds so troubling.  Perhaps it was a certain indiscriminate internationalism on the part of our exuberant, newly free nation that first heightened fears that our revolution might be tending toward Marxism-Leninism - a tendency that the United States could be expected to oppose as a threat to its own national security. This combined with a deteriorating military situation in El Salvador to create an insuperable obstacle in mutual relations between Nicaragua and the United States. The obstacle became an impasse when Washington charged, and my Government denied, that Nicaragua is a staging ground for the Salvadoran rebels. Then it was alleged that Nicaragua maintains the flow of arms to the Salvadoran guerrillas, and has expanded its own armed forces to levels that destabilize the Central American military balance.  Now the recriminations against Nicaragua include the charge of totalitarianism. The allegation, as well as the supposed Marxist-Leninist leanings of the revolution, seem to cast Nicaragua as a threat to democracy and stability in Central America and, by extension, to the interests of the United States.  Although Nicaraguans cannot expect the United States to be naive about what could be Communist designs in Central America, we can hope that it will be open-minded and will not let its misgivings lead it into irrational action.  The United States' continued suspension of bilateral economic assistance and the threat of even more severe economic sanctions oblige the Nicaraguan Government to move closer to the Socialist bloc. The possibility of military measures pushes my Government to seek security in ways that the United States finds threatening. Finally, and most seriously, these actions undermine the credibility of Nicaraguan democrats who maintain that it is possible to harmonize Nicaragua's right to self-determination with the interests of the United States.  Several nations in Latin America and Western Europe have moved in to fill the vacuum left by the United States, hoping to cut off the growth of Nicaragua's dependence on nations outside the democratic world. Mexico's and Venezuela's and other democratic governments in Latin America have censured talk of military intervention by the United States, and have been seconded inside Nicaragua not only by the Sandinist Government but also by dissenting political groups, the private sector, and La Prensa. Washington's hard line continues to encourage the armed aggression of the counter-revolution -groups operating from sanctuaries in Honduras, training camps in Florida, and elsewhere - and thus tempts malcontents inside and outside Nicaragua to play the intervention card. Yet a surprisingly broad range of people and groups inside the country persist in seeking an understanding with the Sandinist Government.  A law to facilititate the functioning of political parties proposed recently by the Sandinists represents an attempt to broaden the base of the Government and preserve a pluralistic society. Similarly, the reincorporation of two moderate and democratic groups - the Conservative Democratic Party of Nicaragua and the Nicaraguan Democratic Movement -into the Council of State must be viewed as a positive sign. In external affairs, the Government does not hide its sympathy for the rebels in El Salvador, but it has repeatedly supported initiatives that might lead to a negotiated political settlement there.  Whether the United States will eventually be able to condone or support the revolution remains, at best, an open question. It is clear, however, that a more understanding United States policy, comparable to the tolerance it showed at the outset of the revolution, could reinforce existing efforts to maintain pluralism in Nicaragua. On the other hand, those who stand to gain the most from a definitive break between the two countries are counter-revolutionaries who seek to abort the revolution and ideologues who seek to push it toward more radical extremes - both at the expense of future generations of Nicaraguans.  The possibility of genuine rapprochement merits continued exploration by Washington. This would not, of course, relieve the Nicaraguan leadership of its responsibility to form a society based on God and liberty. The Nicaraguan revolution can become a political model of internal stability and a stabilizing force in Central America. The United States has a key role to play in that process. --------------------------------------------------------------------- Arturo J. Cruz, former president of Banco Central de Nicaragua, and a former member of the junta, is leaving his post as Ambassador to the United States and returning to private life. 
