19861117
As more and more men, women and families come into the city's shelter system, officials have been amassing facts and figures about who the homeless are, where they come from and why their numbers grow so relentlessly.  The Human Resources Administration, drawing on statistics, interviews and studies, has found the following:  * Of the 27,000 homeless people sheltered by the city, half are children in families headed by single women. The city shelters 4,500 families, each with an average of three children.  * Almost all of the 4,500 families in the shelter system are black or Hispanic, and nearly all are on welfare.  * Single homeless men are the most varied group among the homeless. They range from schizophrenic ex-mental patients to skilled workers and college graduates who are down on their luck.  * Single homeless women are generally better educated than homeless men or the members of homeless families, but have the highest percentage of mental problems.  Everything from mental problems and drug abuse to the loss of a job can leave an individual homeless. But most of the families that the city houses in welfare hotels and shelters had been living doubled up with relatives because they could not afford their apartments or had been evicted. Finding 'a Way Out'  City officials have estimated that 35,000 families are living doubled up in public housing. Extrapolating from that figure, advocates for the homeless have said 73,000 more families are living doubled or even tripled up in other housing.  ''That's about 300,000 people who are teetering on the edge of homelessness,'' said the counsel to the Coalition for the Homeless, Robert M. Hayes.  Generally the city's homeless families include those that are poorest, most vulnerable and most troubled.  ''We've found that any family that has any resources at all will find a way to stay out of our system,'' said a spokesman for the Human Resources Administration, Suzanne Trazoff.  She said that the vast majority of the families sheltered by the city are headed by single women. Many of these homeless families have never had a home of their own.  ''We have quite a few families headed by teen-age mothers,'' Ms. Trazoff said. ''These teen-agers got pregnant, had a child and continued to live at home with their own mothers. Then they had a second child, or a third and the mother finally said, 'Leave, there's not enough room here.' '' Realities of Market  In these young families, she said, ''The head of the household has never lived alone, or signed a lease or paid rent.''  With a low-income housing market that has a turnover of less than 1 percent, and with a waiting list of 200,000 names for public housing, a poor family that loses its home has few options.  Unless that family can live with friends or relatives, it must leave town - or turn to the city for help. The city has set up two very distinct systems to deal with their problems.  Families that have lost their homes to fire, condemnation or ''some other disaster that was no fault of theirs'' are handled by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development.  The department has its own emergency-housing network - about 12 hotels and 3 relatively pleasant family centers, each with private apartments. Only if these centers and hotel rooms are full do these families go to the city's homeless shelters or into the 55 welfare hotels to await permanent housing. Behind Renovation Schedule  A spokesman for the department, Charles Perkins, said that about 875 families, most of them on welfare, are living in the agency's system, and that each family stays an average of 233 days.  Families that are ordered out by friends or relatives, or evicted because they have trouble with their landlords or because they have failed to pay rent, go directly into the Human Resource Administration's system, which in addition to welfare hotels uses four dormitory-like group shelters and three private shelters operated by nonprofit groups.  Since 1983, about the same number of homeless families - about 450 - has come into the shelter system each month. Only about 400 families are placed in permanent housing each month, however, and so the total number of homeless families grows.  The city is behind its own schedule in renovating abandoned apartment buildings for the homeless. Officials said it now takes longer to renovate these buildings because they have completed work on the apartments that need relatively routine work and are now down to the units that need to be gutted and reworked. 'Economically Troubled'  The city now shelters 9,500 single homeless men and women and expects that number to grow by 1,000 this winter. A study last year of more than 800 men and women living in the shelters found that a full 25 percent were ''chronically mentally ill,'' and that 10 to 12 percent more had problems serious enough to warrant some kind of treatment.  The survey found that the single homeless population consisted overwhelmingly of black and Hispanic people, and the average age of those using the shelters was 35. The latest figures show there are 8,449 men and 1,086 women using city shelters.  The deputy administrator for policy and programming at the Human Resources Administration, Steven L. Taylor, said the statistics generally showed that many of the single homeless men were ''economically troubled, meaning if they had better job skills or a little more training, they could move out of the system.''  ''The women, though,'' he said, ''tend to have long histories of mental illness.''  In a survey of single homeless men and women in 1984, the Human Resources Administration asked if the shelter residents had ever been hospitalized or treated for mental illness and the women answered yes at a rate more than double that of the men - 47 percent, compared with 22 percent.  The department's surveys have found that 49 percent of the single men in shelters have a high school education, compared with 57 percent of the women. Among the men, 84.8 percent received no form of public assistance other than shelter, and the figure for women was 70.1 percent.  Photos of homeless people (NYT/Sara Krulwich and Angel Franco) 
