20041202
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Taste: Meet the Newest Member of the Faculty   By Kimball, Roger, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 3, 2004  As it happens, a key witness in the Brinks case refused to testify as the trial approached. Prosecutors dropped their earlier charges against Ms. [Susan Rosenberg], figuring that she could serve a long prison term anyway for weapons possession. At the time, she was quoted in the New York Times saying: "We're caught, but we're not defeated. Long live the armed struggle!" When she was indeed sentenced to 58 years, she announced that "we were busted because we vacillated on our politics.... Our own principles were not strong enough to fight to win." According to Mr. [John Castellucci], one of the officers who apprehended her interpreted this statement to mean that "she regretted not shooting them." Given the context, Mr. Castellucci notes, "he was probably right."  Ms. Rosenberg is coming to Hamilton under the auspices of the Kirkland Project for the Study of Gender, Society, and Culture, a left-wing enclave run by Nancy Rabinowitz, a professor of comparative literature (and, incidentally, the daughter-in-law of Victor Rabinowitz, of the radical law firm Rabinowitz, [Kathy Boudin] et al., which defended, among others, Kathy Boudin). It was Ms. Rabinowitz who invited Ms. Rosenberg. And it was she who rechristened an "artist/scholar-in-residence program" as an "artist/activist-in- residence program." According to Ms. Rabinowitz, Ms. Rosenberg is "an exemplar of rehabilitation" whose "story is about how you can make something productive out of something that was really awful."  What is Ms. Rosenberg going to teach students? In a statement, Hamilton administrators described her as "an award-winning writer, an activist and a teacher who offers a unique perspective as a writer." In fact, her "writings" consist of political doggerel and radical exhortation, while her awards are PEN commendations for prison writing. Here is a representative passage from her poem "To Mumia Abu- Jamal," the convicted cop killer now on death row: "Their message so clear / Do not be Black / Do not be radical / Do not be a political prisoner / There is still time to / SHAKE IT LOOSE."   
