19820719
LONDON, July 18— James Prior, who became Secretary of State for Northern Ireland reluctantly last September, has gone on to influence the province's affairs more than anyone in recent memory.  It was Mr. Prior who visited the Maze Prison, the scene of Irish Republican Army protests, on his third day in office. It was Mr. Prior who later suffered verbal and physical abuse from a crowd at the funeral for a slain Protestant Member of Parliament. Most important, it was Mr. Prior who announced in April the most serious attempt in at least eight years to break the political deadlock in Northern Ireland.  ''I don't believe that to sit on my hands and do nothing is an alternative that ought to be available to a politician,'' he said in his high-cei@linged office overlooking St. James's Park here.  On Monday, Mr. Prior arrives in the United States on a visit intended to publicize his Ulster initiative and to encourage investment in the province. Tries to See and Be Seen  With a politician's art, he has sharply increased his time spent in Northern Ireland, including gathering his family last Christmas at Hillsborough Castle, his official Ulster residence. Surrounded by tight security, he has visited factories and has met often with Roman Catholic and Protestant leaders, civic officials and journalists, all in an effort to see and be seen.  In the course of his energetic labors, ''Lonely Jim,'' as he was called by The Economist in a favorable editorial, has managed to earn the opposition of both Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland. In part, the dislike has arisen because Mr. Prior is supporting neither side's favorite solution. But he is also sometimes viewed as an overly optimistic outsider who has not spent enough time in Ulster to understand how difficult the situation there is.  ''He's operating on a sort of shepherd principle - guide them along and see if they follow,'' said John Simpson, a senior lecturer at Queens University in Belfast. ''Any hope that it will lead to permanent political institutions is just nonsense.''  At the same time, Mr. Simpson said: ''The waters needed to be stirred. He has people talking in a way which reflects different viewpoints, but at least they are talking.''  A year ago, events in Northern Ireland were dominated by a hunger strike by nationalist prisoners that eventually took 10 lives and set off a succession of violent outbursts that claimed still more victims. Violence Has Ebbed  In part, Mr. Prior has been helped since taking office by at least a temporary ebbing of the violence. In the first six months of 1982, 36 people were killed, compared with 101 in all of 1981. If the trend continues, fewer residents will die for sectarian reasons in the province this year than in any year since major civil unrest reappeared a decade ago. In a symbolic act, the Belfast shopping district was recently reopened to private cars in the evenings for the first time in 10 years.  The ending of the hunger strikes shortly after Mr. Prior's arrival allowed political talks with the various factions to resume. Those discussions culminated in Mr. Prior's proposal in early April for a 78-member Northern Ireland assembly. Elections will be held Oct. 20.  The plan seeks to provide the Catholic minority with a sense of security while not compromising the province's position as part of the United Kingdom, an essential position for Protestants.  Mr. Prior is considered influential as a Conservative politician, perhaps a future prime minister. Formerly Employment Secretary, he was moved into the Ulster post by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who was reported to be displeased with his liberal tendencies and sought to lessen his influence on economic policies.  ''He's pretty happy in his own skin in terms of his life and ambitions,'' said Lord Gowrie, an Irish-born peer selected by Mr. Prior to be his deputy. ''He doesn't have that jumpiness. He's quite slow and takes a long time to come to a position, which he does by listening and talking a lot. When he does come to a position, he's stubborn and tenacious.''  Says Mr. Prior: ''What I'm trying to do is to at least make it possible for the people of Northern Ireland to take some steps toward solving their own problems. If they don't wish for it, well then, we have to continue with direct rule.'' Under direct rule, the province is governed by British authorities. Opposition's Rights Stressed  ''What we're heading for, if we are successful, is a devolved government for Northern Ireland but one which recognizes that straight majority rule would not create stability,'' Mr. Prior said in a statement surrounded by caveats intended to dampen expectations.  ''It can be best described by recognizing that democracy is not about the rights of the majority,'' he said. ''True democracy is about the rights which an opposition has.''  Officials dealing with Ulster believe that their new efforts will be aided by what they see as a growing weariness with strife and worsening economic difficulties in the province. Unemployment has reached 19.7 percent.  ''All I'm trying to do at the moment is run like hell to stay in the same place,'' Mr. Prior said.  Illustrations: photo of James Prior 
