19820612
The death penalty is the modern politician's easy answer to crime, yet actually executing people isn't easy at all. In the 37 states where it is legal, the death penalty is hardly an incisive expression of official outrage. What it can offer in the way of vengeance is heavily hedged and inhibited.  The reason is plain to see. Legal machinery remains in place, as well it should, to prevent irreversible error and injustice; it gives the condemned convict extraordinary opportunities to challenge the state. As a result, hardened public attitudes haven't caused a new wave of executions, only severe crowding on death row.  The 919 convicts under death sentences today are the largest such group in our history. Yet only four executions have occurred in the United States since 1977, and three of them were ''voluntary'' - the convicts stopped cooperating with lawyers trying to save their lives.  Curiously, though, few public officials seem to find these statistics worthy of notice. Supreme Court Justice William Rehnquist did object in a dis- The Death Penalty Is an Abstraction; Execution Is Not senting opinion last year that by ''constantly tinkering'' with death penalty law, the high court ''has made it virtually impossible for states to enforce with reasonable promptness their constitutionally valid capital punishment statutes.'' But his statement seemed anomalous; most politicians are content to call for the death penalty as an option rather than to issue bloodthirsty calls for more executions.  That may reflect nothing more than good taste, yet the sense of profound ambivalence remains strong. In Idaho four years ago, the Legislature banned the firing squad in favor of supposedly more humane lethal injections. Now, however, the state has authorized shooting again; it couldn't find doctors or nurses who would agree to administer the needle. In the lower courts, for the most part, the death penalty remains an abstraction. The judges and juries there would probably not be so quick to condemn if the convicts were hustled immediately from their judgment to the electric chair. But as a case rises through the appeals process, the approaching reality of death affects everyone involved, and even minor procedural issues take on new significance.  This ambivalence is hardly the result of faintheartedness or incompetence. It arises from deeply held values: respect for individual life and respect for law. It may also reflect a sense that after years of hardly any executions, each new one marks a clear - and troubling - reversal of a movement toward humane punishment that began in the 18th century.  The idea of the death penalty gratifies a lust for vengeance; the reality of execution offends a modern sense of decency. In such a conflict of the primitive and the civilized, can anyone doubt which should prevail?  DAVID C. ANDERSON 
