20010111
 Review / Film: Rich Geek, Poor Geek: Tech Thriller `AntiTrust' Is Clever, but Has Bugs --- Robbins Shines as Gatesian Guru, But Co-Stars Aren't Up to Code; `Last Dance' Soars and Stumbles   By By Joe Morgenstern, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 12, 2001  Dancing is the shared passion of its young lovers. Derek (Sean Patrick Thomas) is black, a gifted inner-city high-school student who was born to dance hip-hop, though the high-minded, low-achieving script also gives him a burning passion to be a pediatrician. Sara (Julia Stiles) is white, a cultivated kid from suburbia who's been thrust into Derek's semisanitized South Side Chicago 'hood by a cruel twist of fate that the writers can't quite make plausible. Sara once had a burning passion to study ballet at Juilliard, and she's got what it takes, or so we're told, to get accepted. But that same cruel twist has left Sara unable to dance at all until Derek becomes her teacher and mentor. At that point the story veers toward "Flashdance" and "West Side Story." (Plus "Pygmalion" in the spirit of Bob Fosse or, when Derek tries to teach Sara some cool black moves, in the spirit of Richard Pryor doing the same for Gene Wilder in "Silver Streak.")  The instrument of [Gary Winston]'s downfall is Milo Hoffman (Ryan Phillippe), a genius geek who's close to solving the very problems of data compression that have proved an insuperable obstacle to Nurv's satellite scheme. Milo would like to believe, along with his garage cohorts, that "human knowledge belongs to the world." (The movie's idealism about open-source software evokes the early days of the World Wide Web.) Yet he sells his soul to Nurv's diabolical mogul, and discovers only later, byte by byte, what Winston and his Orwellian cohorts are really up to. That's the core of the plot -- Milo's efforts to redeem himself by bringing Nurv down -- and it's neither a pretty picture nor a consistently plausible one, what with our hero beset by a treacherous female (boring Claire Forlani or pert Rachael Leigh Cook, guess which) and saved, at the last minute, by more than one convenient switch of allegiance.   
