19990711
 E-Commerce (A Special Report) --- The Buyers -- A Brush With the Future: One man's odyssey to find his favorite German toothpaste on the Web   By By Jon G. Auerbach, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 12, 1999  How did I find the Kurfuersten? On the Web, of course. Its home page popped up while I was searching for a Swiss toothpaste called Aronal, which became my favorite brand while I was living in Europe several years ago. Aronal isn't available in the U.S., so for years I've been bringing back five or six tubes each time I'm in Europe, incurring the ire of my wife, who is sick of traveling with overstuffed luggage, not to mention getting odd looks from customs officials.  Because I write about technology for a living, earlier this year I decided to put the Internet to the test. I wanted to cut through all the hullabaloo about a shrinking world and global access, and see whether the Web really allows consumers to become global shoppers. Nearly everyone who has traveled abroad has brought back products they fancy, from Italian coffee to Scottish cashmere and Japanese porcelain. Why not stop all that lugging and order the goods over the Internet? Plus, my quest had a secondary, but perhaps more urgent, motivation: replenishing my dwindling toothpaste supply, which had dwindled from a peak of 15 tubes to dangerously low levels.  Since beginning my shopping experiment, I've purchased Aronal in Bruehl and diaper cream and pacifiers in Berlin. After searching unsuccessfully for the wartime memoirs of British author George MacDonald Fraser in bookstores and on U.S. Web sites, I found the book in London over the Internet, and received it a few weeks later. I purchased a British novel, "The Peculiar Memoirs of Thomas Penman," from Amazon.com's U.K. site, where it was available in paperback. Even after paying the shipping costs, the book cost about $4.50 less than in the U.S., where it is only available in hardcover. The only downside: I had to wait more than a week for the book.   
