19990404
 For Bonds, Quarter's Bright Hopes Took a Nose Dive With Treasurys   By By Gregory Zuckerman, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 5, 1999  Bond investors, particularly conservative ones in funds that don't stray far from Treasurys, began the year with high hopes. Inflation was low, the possibility of lower interest rates was seen as likely, and memories of world-wide tumult still were fresh enough to keep demand strong for highly secure investments such as theirs. In fact, most analysts were convinced the U.S. economy would join the rest of the world in slowing this year, further reducing the possibility of an uptick in inflation and helping bond prices rise. So confident were many investors of these trends that some even shifted more assets into bonds from stocks, figuring it was a safe place to park their money in case of a stock-market correction.  But after starting the year on a good note, the climate in the fixed-income world shifted significantly in February, saddling bond funds of all kinds with disappointing first-quarter returns. In fact, February witnessed a sharp loss of 2.55% in total return in the Lehman Brothers index of Treasury securities, marking the worst month in 18 years for the Treasury market. The losses came as Treasury yields, which move inversely to prices, jumped to their highest levels since August. By the end of the quarter, the yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond had climbed to 5.621% from 5.10% at the start of the year. The sell-off in Treasurys weighed on most other bonds, which also fell in price in the quarter.  Among the quarter's biggest surprises: Mutual funds that invest in risky bonds fared better than Treasury-based ones. Junk-bond funds, a category that has proved an attractive alternative to both stocks and more staid bonds in recent years, were up an average 2.78% in the quarter. Emerging-market bond funds, of all things, turned in an even stronger performance, up an average 4.20%. Last year, investors in this category suffered mightily, as global crises swept from country to country following August's Russian-debt default. The average emerging-market bond fund fell a staggering 20.26% in 1998.   
