19810315
WARSAW— At first there were only a few isolated incidents. A Star of David was scribbled on a Solidarity poster. A crude poem was scrawled on a wall in northern Warsaw; it said Lech Walesa, the Solidarity union leader and a devout Roman Catholic, was Jewish.  A newspaper called Flames appeared. It carried many articles on the purity of Polish patriotism and the evils of Zionism. Then a mysterious document circulated, reportedly from the control commission of the Communist Party. It offered as information that ''should be checked out'' that Karol Modzelewski, another prominent Solidarity leader who is also a Catholic, was a Jewish orphan adopted by a well-to-do family. The party disavowed the document.  Last week these bits and threads from the gutter of Polish politics came together in a full-blown, coordinated anti-Semitic campaign. A public demonstration was held to commemorate Polish patriots who ''were tortured, sentenced and executed'' at the hands of ''the Zionist clique,'' a reference to Jews who occupied high positions in the party and security apparatus during the Stalinist terror of the 1950's.  Among 500 people there, many were merely curious onlookers and a few were genuine victims who had been imprisoned for eight years and whose suffering had never received proper public vindication. But there were also agitators and men with the characteristic bearing of police agents. The gathering had the earmarks of official sponsorship, at some level. The Remnant of Polish Jewry  The last wave of anti-Semitism rolled over Poland in 1968. Officially sponsored under the only slightly euphemistic guise of anti-Zionism, it drove thousands of Jews from public life and out of the country. It was a somewhat artificial creation, not a response to a spontaneous manifestation of centuries-old popular bigotry. It was a product of intraparty struggle, a vehicle consciously raised up - although undoubtedly motivated by anti-Semitic feelings - by which one group in the party tried to remove another.  This time, the campaign seems to have an equally cynical ulterior motive, but with a critical difference: There are almost no Jews left. Poland, which had perhaps 80 percent of world Jewry in the Middle Ages and 3.5 million Jews only 41 years ago, now has an estimated 5,000 to 8,000. For every 7,000 gentiles, there is one Jew.  But numbers do not tell the full story. Most of the survivors are too old or broken to emigrate. Others strive for assimilation and do not admit their Jewish origins. There is nothing that could be called a Jewish community. For reasons of guilt and public relations, the Government finances a Jewish theater and a party-controlled Yiddish language weekly. But there is not a single bakery to produce unleavened bread, a single rabbi to hold services or a single mohel to circumcise boys. ''We do not want a mohel,'' observed a 62-yearold man who worships in a small apartment next to a gutted synagogue still under reconstruction. ''There are no more Jewish babies born in Poland.'' An Interior Connection?  There is no longer an effective minority, not even a tiny island within the homogenous sea. Most Poles under the age of 30 have never met a Jew. It raises a question to be pondered by sociologists, not to mention moral philosophers: Can anti-Semitism succeed without Jews?  The answer will depend upon the goal of the anti-Semitism and who is behind it. As far as can be determined, the people who made speeches at the rally about the new Zionist ''threat'' - and founded an organization they called Grunwald - belong to the Union of Socialist Youth. Many were active in suppressing the student demonstrations in March 1968, the event that catalyzed the last purge. Among their leaders are nationalistic right-wingers, including Bohdan Poreba, a film director who specializes in epics about Polish history, Ryszard Filipski, who ran a theater in Cracow that produced anti-Semitic plays and Ryszard Gontarz, a journalist reputedly connected with the Interior Ministry. The rally reportedly was planned at a meeting on Feb. 25 in the House of Culture in Warsaw's Old Town. Leaflets announcing it, according to persons who watch these things, appear to have been produced on an Interior Ministry copying machine. Among those who were caught distributing them, according to Solidarity, were low-level party activists.  To persons familiar with the provocations of 1968, the clues point to involvement by security services and the Warsaw party. How high the sponsorship goes is unknown, but last week, Stanislaw Kania, the party leader, denounced an attempt to use anti-Semitism and asserted that ''these shady sources have always been foreign to Communists.''  Some view the campaign as an attempt to muddy the waters and create a right wing to ''balance'' extremists in Solidarity. Others, reaching into history, interpret it as a sign of a factional struggle within the party, similar to the ''anti-Zionist'' campaign of 1968 engineered by Gen. Mieczyslaw Moczar, who, significantly, is back in power in the Politburo. More likely, it is a move to undercut, or at least blunt, the vast support of workers for Solidarity and to drive a wedge between Solidarity and its dissident allies. Solidarity's upper echelon includes almost no Jews. Among the leaders of the dissident Committee for Social Self-Defense, KOR, are former students expelled from universities in 1968 because they were Jewish. They include Adam Michnik, a brilliant historian who was detained for three hours by the police last week, and Jan Litynski, editor of the underground newspaper, The Workers.  There are no signs that the anti-Semitic campaign has struck a chord of public sympathy. Polish workers seem keenly aware of the tired tools of psychological manipulation and the union has spoken out forcefully against it. Only a paranoid or desperately weak faction of the party, they feel, could lay plots of such magnitude upon a target so arithmetically insignificant.  At a lecture last week, Jacek Kuron, the leader of KOR, recalled meeting an elderly Jew in prison in 1968. With three million Jews killed in the war and the Jewish population so small, ''at least we won't be hated anymore,'' the old man observed. ''And you see, he was wrong,'' said Mr. Kuron. ''Now, there are almost no Jews left in Poland. And there is still anti-Semitism.''  Illustrations: photo of Polish Jew 
