19820611
THE coming of age of Theater Row was probably complete on a recent crisp June evening. It was a gala benefit night for all participating companies in this thriving theater district on West 42d Street between Ninth and 10th Avenues. Before the curtains rose, hundreds of theatergoers -some formally attired - were gathered on the sidewalk under the bright banners that act as marquees for the theaters. They sipped champagne and toasted an experiment in urban reclamation.  During the intermissions, two mounted police officers were watching the strolling theatergoers. As if on cue, a member of the Theater Row family suddenly appeared with two large carrots for the officers' horses. A feeling of congeniality filtered through the air as audiences returned for the second acts of their shows. It was easy to forget that seven years ago the street that has become Theater Row was chockablock with cheap burlesque houses, massage parlors and pornographic bookstores.  Theater Row is celebrating its fourth anniversary - call it a graduation - with a monthlong festival of performing arts (plays, concerts, films, children's shows, dance and opera), that will climax on Sunday with a street fair. From noon to 5 P.M., this stretch of West 42d will become a boulevard for pedestrians. There will be booths with theatrical souvenirs, the district's growing number of restaurants will be open for dining and, on outdoor stages, a series of musical, dance and gymnastic events will be staged.  Weathering economic problems, the district now appears to be established on the New York cultural scene. It is second only to Broadway in the density of theaters in the space of a narrow neighborhood. At present there are eight houses in active operation, and one, Playwrights Horizon, has two stages. Several more theaters are still on the drawing board. From Joyce to Brecht  This weekend the theaters are offering a variety of theatrical and musical events. There are the Acting Company's imaginative Story Theater version of James Joyce's ''The Dubliners'' at the Actors and Directors Theater and, at the Lion Theater, a three-part repertory - ''The Caucasian Chalk Circle,'' a youthfully exuberant version of Bertolt Brecht's cautionary tale; ''Romeo and Juliet,'' and Len Jenkin's ''Kitty Hawk.'' Also at the Actors and Directors Theater is John S. Patterson's one-man show about Langston Hughes. And a jazz concert under the musical direction of Galt MacDermot, the composer of ''Hair,'' is at the Intar Theater.  In its brief lifetime, Theater Row has served a double purpose, sometimes simultaneously. It is a home for small resident theaters, such as Playwrights Horizon and the Lion company, and it is also an economical place to showcase new work. At these theaters (most of which have only 99 seats), producers can afford to take chances, and if a show succeeds, they can move it to a potentially profitable situation.  From the beginning, Playwrights Horizon has been a pioneer in the neighborhood, first under the direction of Robert Moss and now led by Andre Bishop. In the last year, the company has had an unprecedented run of good fortune (and wise artistic management) with three critical and popular successes: Christopher Durang's ''Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All for You,'' A.R. Gurney Jr.'s ''The Dining Room'' and, most recently, Jonathan Reynolds's ''Geniuses.''  In each case, the theater itself sponsored the work's move to Off Broadway. ''Sister Mary'' is now playing around the corner at the Westside Arts Theater on West 43d Street, ''The Dining Room'' is downtown at the Astor Place Theater, and ''Geniuses'' is scheduled to reopen on June 22 at the Douglas Fairbanks Theater, the newest and most spacious house on Theater Row. One-Man Vaudeville Play  This weekend, Playwrights Horizon is closed to the public while rehearsals continue for Tom Cone's ''Herringbone,'' a one-man vaudeville play in which David Rounds performs 10 roles. ''Herringbone'' begins previews on Wednesday. The emphasis at this prospering company is on new American comedies. Other groups take a more eclectic approach, with many renting their stages to visiting productions.  One of the attractions of Theater Row is the low ticket prices - from $3.50 to $14 - in most cases, one-third of those on Broadway. Visitors can make reservations by telephone (279-4200) or simply by walking up to the Ticket Central booth. On Theater Row, you can window-shop for an evening's entertainment.  Drawing sustenance from the towering Manhattan Plaza apartments across the street, principally a residence for professionals affiliated with theater, the area has achieved a cultural ambiance. There are cabarets - for example, the West Bank Cafe (695-6909), which this Sunday opens a show called ''Maurice Hines and Fierce Divas of Broadway.'' The show, which begins at 9 P.M., has a highpowered sextet of musical entertainers: Mr. Hines, Phyllis Hyman, Ken Page, Armelia McQueen, Lonnie McNeil and Lynnie Godfrey.  Another center of cultural activity is the Theater Arts Bookshop on the street level of Manhattan Plaza. This is a large, hospitable environment for buyers and browsers, and, conveniently, it is open until curtain time.  Illustrations: photos of actors on Broadway 
