19850517
GLENDALE, Calif., May 16— A $1 million clerical malpractice lawsuit stemming from a suicide was dismissed today by a judge who said the case was groundless and might have had a chilling effect on religious freedom.  The case was brought by the parents of Kenneth Nally, who killed himself in 1979 at the age of 24 because he was despondent over breaking up with a young woman.  Mr. Nally, a convert from Roman Catholicism, who had tried to kill himself previously, was counseled by clergy at Grace Community Church in the Los Angeles suburb of Sun Valley.  His parents had contended that the church told their son that suicide was an acceptable alternative, perhaps even preferable, to living a sinful life.  The church issued a statement earlier saying that its views on suicide had been misinterpreted and explaining that its pastors believed only ''that suicide does not negate one's eternal salvation.''  Religious officials from around the nation had expressed concern about the case and said such fears had brought on the advent of religious malpractice insurance.  Question of Expert Care  The Nallys contended the church refused to send their son to a psychiatrist for counseling, but the church countered that Mr. Nally was seen by eight physicians, psychiatrists and other mental health professionals in the last two months of his life.  It was the second time in five years the suit was dismissed. The earlier dismissal was overturned by the state Court of Appeal.  In the second dismissal, Superior Court Judge Joseph Kalin ruled today: ''There is no compelling state interest for this court to interfere in the pastoral counseling activities of Grace Community Church. Such interference could result in excessive entanglement of the state in the church and religious beliefs and teachings.''  The Nallys' lawyer, Edward Barker, said he was shocked by the ruling and is ready to appeal if the parents wish to.  Walter and Maria Nally had sued the church in 1980, alleging malpractice, wrongful death, negligence and outrageous conduct by the church and four clergymen, including the Rev. John F. MacArthur Jr., senior pastor.  Judge Kalin dismissed the case after the close of Mr. Barker's case, saying any attempt to ''impart standards of pastoral counseling would open the floodgates to clergy malpractice suits'' and have a ''chilling effect on the exercise of freedom of religion.''  A church official said no changes are planned in the church's counseling methods. 
