19811226
Nothing can impart quite the same sense of well-being as the delicious aromas of food cooking when one comes home on a cold winter evening. Some foods send forth such warm and luscious scents that they seem to be fattening even in the smelling and almost sustaining enough without being eaten. In Burgundy, I was told, there is a particularly fine and strong marc that true connoisseurs sniff but never drink. They pour a few drops into a large, warmed brandy snifter, then empty it and press faces into the glass to inhale the residual perfume, a subtler appreciation, they claim, than merely drinking the clear white firewater.  As for the feeling of security that food smells can instill, I once knew a woman who had a brief extramarital fling, with assignations that took place in the afternoon. Each day she would hurry home and begin sauteing onions, because, she said, if her husband came in and smelled the cooking, he would know everything was all right. That meant, of course, that each night's meal had to include a dish in which sauteed onions were appropriate, but that's the sort of challenge any resourceful cook welcomes.  Considering how tantalizing such smells can be, it's surprising that no enterprising olfactory engineer has come up with a series of food smells that can be sprayed around the house. Then, even if odorless and characterless convenience foods were served, salivary glands would be stimulated by the synthetic aromas. Such products do exist for commercial use, as in food stores where the scents of coffee, chocolate or baking bread can be counted on to lure prospective customers. But so far, no counterparts are promoted for home use. In fact, room deodorizers are popular precisely because they mask cooking odors, a function that seems pointless to anyone who loves food.  Different combinations of food aromas seem appropriate to different times of day. To get a family up to a good start in the morning, what could be more encouraging than the combined scents of toast, bacon and freshly brewed coffee? And of all hot cereals, none smells better in the cooking than Wheatena with its roasted nuttiness that hints at a cheerful day ahead.  Coming home on a rainy or snowy night, members of a family will feel instant surcease from weather and cares if they get aromatic hints of a simmering pot roast or stew that combines red wine, sauteed onions and bay leaves and thyme. And if a strip of dried orange peel is added to a winy beef stew, it will issue forth pungent aromas that are faintly tropical.  Mexican chicken or turkey mole, braised with chocolate and toasted sesame seeds, sends out especially nose-twitching aromas that suggest the warmth and languor of Mexico itself. And ratatouille, with its simmering combination of parsley, garlic, oil, peppers, onions, zucchini, tomatoes and eggplant, recalls the sun-washed beaches and herb gardens of a Proven,cale summer.  The cooking aroma I prefer to come home to in midwinter is that of sweet red peppers roasting in the oven, later to be peeled and steeped in olive oil, and stewing green peppers filled with beef and rice send off a sweet and pungent perfume also.  And to my family, nothing signals a warmer evening welcome than Italian meat sauce with its golden garlic sauteed in olive oil, spicy sausage, browned beef, tomatoes, oregano and basil. One whiff evokes an instant image of a bowlful of steaming farfalle butterflies, or the corkscrew fusilli they like best with this lusty sauce.  Baking chocolate in cakes or brownies implies bright festivities to come, but if there is such a thing as a halo aroma, one that carries implications of purity, health and sunny innocence, it is the tantalizing scent of baking yeast bread or a cinnamon-sprinkled yeast coffeecake.  Illustrations: cartoon of cooking odors 
