19820309
WASHINGTON, March 8— Congressional resistance to President Reagan's proposal to cut student aid demonstrates one of the fundamental truths of American politics: Programs with a broad constituency including the middle class are much harder to cut than programs for poor people.  In cutting expenditures for Federal benefit programs, Mr. Reagan has repeatedly said that he wants to ''target'' scarce resources to those most in need. He also says he wants to reduce Government subsidies for ''middle- to upper-income'' families.  That means cutting back or eliminating assistance for many families that receive guaranteed student loans, grants for college students and lunch subsidies for elementary and secondary school children.  Mr. Reagan's new budget lamented ''the surge in Federal assistance for students from middle- and upper-income families following passage of the Middle Income Student Assistance Act of 1978.'' The 1978 law removed the ceiling that had prevented families with adjusted gross incomes of more than $25,000 a year from receiving federally subsidized loans. Proportion Has Shifted  In 1978, according to data compiled for the Department of Education, only 3.4 percent of undergraduates from families with incomes of more than $40,000 a year had guaranteed loans. The proportion rose to 11.8 percent in 1979 and then to 20.6 percent in 1980.  From 1979 to 1981, according to Federal education officials, the wealthiest families could qualify for guaranteed student loans because no analysis of need was required. Congress amended the law last year to provide that families with incomes of more than $30,000 could receive guaranteed loans only if they could demonstrate ''financial need.'' That is almost certain to reduce the number of upper-income families benefiting from the program.  In seeking further cuts in student aid this year, the Reagan Administration appears to have underestimated the political perils of attacking middle-class subsidies. Thousands of college students descended on Washington last week to lobby against the proposals. Republican lawmakers joined Democrats in vowing to oppose further cuts in this election year.  Representative Jack F. Kemp and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, New York Republicans who were among Mr. Reagan's firmest allies in last year's budget battles, said last week that they opposed further reductions in Federal aid for college students. Outpouring of Protest  If poor people had mobilized protests last year as students did this year, Congress would probably not have approved so many cuts in welfare, food stamps, Medicaid and housing programs. Last year Congress adopted strict rules for Medicaid, the medical assistance program for the poor, but when Mr. Reagan proposed similar changes this year in Medicare, the health insurance program for the elderly, there was an outpouring of protest from physicians, hospitals, insurance companies and groups of elderly people.  ''Middle- and upper-income people are much more likely to make their views known to Congress,'' said Allan W. Ostar, president of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. ''Poor people are less likely to know about the cuts that affect them most severely and are less likely to make their views known to Congress.''  Representative Peter A. Peyser, Democrat of Westchester and the Bronx, said it was easier to champion the cause of students than of welfare recipients because ''they are speaking out, they are writing letters, they are coming to Washington.''  Underlying the current dispute is a philosophical disagreement over the financial obligations of students, their parents and the Government. Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan, explaining the Administration's view over the weekend, said: ''I hate to seem oldfashioned and sort of square, but there is a thing called working your way through school. I did it. It ain't easy, but you can do it.'' Public Colleges Also Costly  Mr. Regan graduated from Harvard in 1940. Educators say that it is much more difficult now for students to earn enough to meet the cost of attending a public college, let alone an expensive private college.  The Administration says that parents must assume responsibility, even at some financial sacrifice, for sending their children to college. ''I do not accept the notion that the Federal Government has an obligation to fund generous grants to anybody that wants to go to college,'' David A. Stockman, director of the Office of Management and Budget, said last fall. ''If people want to go to college bad enough, then there is opportunity and responsibility on their part to finance their way through the best way they can.''  Few members of Congress have firsthand knowledge of welfare or food stamps, but most know the problems of financing higher education, either for themselves or their children. Representative Arlen Erdahl, Republican of Minnesota, has three sons in college, including two who receive guaranteed student loans of $2,500 each. Mr. Peyser has two sons receiving guaranteed loans, one at Harvard and one at Tufts University. As members of Congress, Mr. Erdahl and Mr. Peyser receive salaries of $60,662 a year. Middle Class Benefits Most  Middle-class students are the principal beneficiaries of guaranteed loans, the subject of the loudest outcry this year. Mr. Ostar said, ''Congress hasn't heard nearly as much opposition to cuts in Pell grants and Social Security benefits for the children of deceased and disabled workers,'' programs that benefit students from lower-income families. However, educators have been lobbying hard to preserve all the Federal aid programs.  By cutting off assistance for many middle-income families, Mr. Reagan would focus student aid on the poor. In a similar manner, Congress sharpened the focus of the welfare and food stamp programs last year by tightening eligibility requirements.  Whether narrowly focused programs can retain broad political support is an open question. Alvin L. Schorr, a social science professor at Case Western Reserve University, warns that ''programs for poor people tend to become poor programs.''  ''Because of the way we feel about poor people in the United States,'' Mr. Schorr adds, ''we build stigmas and limitations into the programs designed for them,'' and the programs tend to deteriorate. 
