19810828
IF the A.A.A. Galleries, 663 Fifth Avenue, at 53d Street, have been in and out of this column all month, it is not because I view them with special favor. It is because they take the trouble to put on interesting and thoughtful exhibitions at a moment in the year when almost everyone else is away at the beach.  Their new show can be seen through Oct. 3, and it is called ''The Discerning Eye.'' It has an enormous subject -nothing less than a quick run-through of all the things that can happen to an artist's print from the moment it first comes off the press. It can leave the studio in any one of a number of successive states. It can be signed or annotated, either by the artist himself or by other people. It can start as a good impression, but it can also start as a defective one.  It can reach us in good shape, and it can also reach us in terrible shape. It may have changed its color - sometimes for good reason, sometimes not. The printer and the publisher may have done things to it, with or without the artist's consent. And it can be copied, forged or faked in ways that run the gamut of human intent from adulation to criminality.  All this is standard stuff, and in every textbook, but it's not often that the layman can see it so clearly detailed in relation to everything from Durer and Rembrandt to Matisse and Chagall. Given that New York State has recently passed a bill whose object is to protect the customer from prints that are not what they purport to be, and given also that forgeries and fakes exert an almost universal fascination, many visitors will turn first to that particular category.  There is, of course, a fundamental difference between the fraudulent reproduction of a known original and the act of bluff and deception that depends on the aping of a familiar style. There is, for instance, in the present exhibition a so-called ''Matisse lithograph'' that is neither a lithograph nor by Matisse. It is a freehand drawing in the style of Matisse that was made with a lithographic pencil and fitted out with a signature and an edition number.  This counterfeit is quite worthless, except as a curiosity; but it does at least manifest a certain rascally sleight of hand, though not one that should deceive the visitor who has ever looked closely at Matisse. This is drawing that is approximate, where Matisse is exact, and flabby where Matisse is lean.  What is duller, as well as even more disreputable, is the trade in mechanical reproductions - some of them very expensive - that are not like the original, have no resale value and do dirt to a famous name. The show touches lightly on this question, though the pirated Chagall may strike some visitors - myself included - as less repulsive than the genuine Chagall.  It is in the context of copies and variants that the exhibition most usefully broadens out in its historical references. When we speak of ''a copy'' today, the word usually has overtones of disparagement. A copy may well have been done from an underhand motive, we think; and such is our almost religious belief in the sanctity of the artist's hand that we have trouble believing that a modern copy can be any good. For these reasons, a modern copy tends to be bad news.  But it wasn't always so, by any means. When Degas copied Mantegna, it was because he loved the work and wanted to get as close to it as he could. And then there were copies of prints that were made because not everyone could have the original and the image was too precious to be lost from view. Sometimes, too, the original block or plate had worn out. And sometimes, as in the case of John Martin's illustrations for ''Paradise Lost'' in the 1820's, the original artist was perfectly happy to do the plate over in a different size.  These are matters on which every generation has its own ideas about what is permissible and what is not. The generations also vary in their ideas of what is worth big money and what isn't. So there are no fixed rules in the matter. There was a time for instance - around 70 years ago - when a mezzotint engraving after a portrait by Reynolds or Gainsborough was worth a great deal of money. But when taste veered toward an ideal of spontaneity and immediacy, those same engravings came to be regarded as of primarily documentary interest, and sank in value accordingly.  No exhibition can teach us to foretell the taste of the future, but ''The Discerning Eye'' is very good about the ways in which one version of a print can legitimately differ from another. A case in point is Lyonel Feininger's woodcut ''The Hack'' (whose subject is a carriage, by the way, not a hard-pressed critic). Feininger enjoyed changing the look of the uphill ground on which the carriage was traveling, and in doing this, he cut away at the block progressively, state by state. What might have been a crafty imitation by another hand was owed in this case to Feininger's sense of play.  Students of process may also like to note the illustration by John Sloan to Somerset Maugham's ''Of Human Bondage.'' This comes in three forms - the original pencil drawing, a first proof and a second proof. This is a group that has much to teach us about what can be transferred, and what cannot, from drawing to etching.  Other current exhibitions include: ''Homage to Anita Loos'' (Grand Central Galleries, Biltmore Hotel, Vanderbilt Avenue at 43d Street): Hardly since Samson tore down the great temple at Gaza has a building disappeared as rapidly as the Biltmore Hotel. But people have shown a rare persistence this last day or two in pushing their way upstairs at the entrance on Vanderbilt Avenue to where the Grand Central Galleries has been holding its own with an exhibition of portraits, photographs and memorabilia relating to Anita Loos.  And a very curious and affecting show it is, for anyone who cherishes the outsize figures who dominated what was called ''the commercial theater'' in the 1920's and 30's. Even in extreme old age these hardy veterans kept their fascination intact - and none of them more so than the tiny and indomitable Miss Loos. If you feel like beating a path through the ruins, don't delay. The show closes this evening.  Illustrations: photo of the counterfeit Matisse lithograp 
