19820712
For years Dome Petroleum Ltd. was a company that glowed. In the increasingly lucrative oil and natural gas business, it was among the pioneers developing new drilling techniques in the forbidding Beaufort Sea. The stock market applauded, pushing the company's shares to new highs, while people happily referred to its chairman and founder as ''Smiling Jack.''  Today Dome Petroleum is not only in trouble but also is tarnishing the Canadian Government's National Energy Program and making five of the country's major banks extremely edgy about the losses they are risking.  The company has historically relied on heavy borrowing to finance its growth, but its debts now are staggering and coming due fast. By the end of 1981, Dome Petroleum's long-term debts were bigger than those of the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation combined. As of March 31, Dome reported total borrowing of $5.8 billion (Canadian money) and no cash or short-term deposits whatsoever. A Canadian dollar is now worth about 78 United States cents.  ''We are a company that is asset-rich, and temporarily our cash flow has been cut back substantially,'' John P. Gallagher, Dome's chairman and chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview last week from corporate headquarters in Calgary, Alberta. ''I would suspect that certainly 1983 and beyond should start looking a lot brighter.''  Whether Dome Petroleum will indeed thrive soon is uncertain. But the feeling of most analysts is that the banks and Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau will have to find ways to assure that the largest independent oil company in Canada does not strangle.  Dome Petroleum, a 32-year-old company with far-flung oil acreage in Canada's western provinces, the Beaufort Sea and the Arctic islands, had been the darling of the energy industry through much of 1981. There was enthusiasm about the company's oil prospects, and market analysts also liked its natural gas liquids system and sophisticated fleet for drilling in icy waters. As late as May 1981, one Wall Street analyst noted the ''managerial excellence and financial wizardry'' of the company's leaders. Push for Canadianization  Dome Petroleum's decline, analysts said, must be examined in the context of Canada's National Energy Program, which was introduced in October 1980. The program's goal was energy independence for Canada, including the acquisition by Canadian-owned companies of oil and gas properties dominated by Americans and other foreigners. As an incentive for ''Canadianization,'' the Ottawa Government offered substantial exploration incentives for companies owned by Canadian citizens.  Last summer, Dome Petroleum bit the bait. It paid $1.43 billion for 22 million shares of Conoco Inc. and then returned the shares, plus $245 million more in cash, to buy Conoco's 52.9 percent interest in the Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas Company - a company with 13.6 million net acres in Canada and 8.9 million net acres elsewhere.  ''There was a tremendous amount of publicity that Dome was doing precisely what the Government had in mind,'' recalled Gint Berius, the senior oil analyst at Merrill Lynch Royal Securities Ltd. in Toronto.  Dome Petroleum, however, had to stretch itself thin to make the purchase. It had started 1981 with long-term debt of $2.6 billion (Canadian), or 58 percent of its capital - a proportion double that of some comparable oil companies. By the end of the year, long-term debt had grown to $6.2 billion, or 70 percent of capital. Affected by Price Declines  Unexpected events helped to pull the 32-year-old company close to the breaking point. The demand for oil, and therefore its price, dropped precariously, at the same time that the Government raised taxes on production. Prices for lead, zinc and copper - produced by a Hudson's Bay subsidiary - also fell. And the interest on Dome Petroleum debt, most of it tied to current rates, stayed high as the company wrestled to take control of the other 47.1 percent of Hudson's Bay, a requirement of the Ontario Securities Commission.  It was not until this March that Dome Petroleum finally struck an agreement to take over the minority interest of Hudson's Bay for another $2 billion (Canadian). That meant nine months of paying interest on the money borrowed to buy Hudson's Bay before Dome could take control of the Hudson's Bay cash flow or start selling the acquired company's non-Canadian properties in the United States and Indonesia, as planned.  Dome Petroleum ended up paying interest of $724.4 million (Canadian) in 1981, up from $291.8 million in 1980, and recorded net income of $199.1 million, down from 1980's $287.2 million in 1980. The company's stock, which had peaked at $21.25 on the American Stock Exchange in the summer of 1981, tumbled, closing Friday at 4 3/8. Participation of Banks  Dome's financial fragility, meanwhile, is making the company's banks ''very nervous,'' according to Gerald Braun, a banking industry analyst at Richardson Securities, Canada, in Winnipeg.  He estimated that Dome Petroleum owes the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce between $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion (Canadian), or 50 percent to 70 percent of its net worth, including reserves for bad debts. The other participating banks, he said, estimating their exposure, are the Bank of Montreal ($1 billion, or 42 percent of net worth), the Toronto Dominion Bank ($850 million, or 50 percent), the Royal Bank ($650 million, or 22 percent) and the Bank of Nova Scotia ($200 million, or 13 percent).  Mr. Braun said the ''general understanding'' was that Dome Petroleum had recently been paying only the interest and not the principal on its loans, which in many cases are backed by oil and gas lands. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
