19820608
WASHINGTON, June 7— On her wedding day in 1928, Constance Emily Millard of Elizabeth, N.J., saved everything: a pair of shoes with the imprint of a silver sixpence that had been fastened on them, bouquet fragments, a garter, stockings, a formal portrait and newspaper clippings that she filed in her wedding book.  Her wedding was a high society affair. Her mementos, given to the Smithsonian Institution by her son, Charles Millard, a curator, are in an exhibition at the Renwick Gallery called ''Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual,'' to run until June 1983.  The exhibition also includes objects from weddings in Africa, Europe and Asia. A Navajo wedding basket, from which the bride and groom eat corn mush during their marriage, and a colorful Ndebele beaded apron from South Africa reflect the ceremonial aspects of marriage. But the dowry boxes and marriage contracts show that marriage is also traditionally an alliance of two families.  Some Alien, Some Familiar  The Renwick has lined its cases with 600 objects from 62 cultures. Some of the objects are alien to American culture, such as the hyena mask of the Chokwe people in Zaire, but others are as familiar as New Year's noisemakers.  Celebrations express ''some peaks of joy, some peaks of appreciable sorrow that elevate us a bit from the humdrum,'' according to Victor W. Turner, an anthropologist at the University of Virginia who is also curator for the exhibition. ''The craftsman does his best to create objects that are beautiful and large numbers of people tend to come together around a key event or memory.''  Even the death of a person is a kind of celebration, Mr. Turner said, because ''it brings people together and restores a sense of relatedness.''  The exhibition places the diverse objects in categories, allowing the viewer to compare the way cultures celebrate. A staff of anthropologists, folklorists and exhibition designers that searched remote storage areas of the Smithsonian worked for three years to reduce 10,000 items to 600. They also included films, blown-up photos and live cultural celebrations.  The first wing is called Objects Speak. The works themselves, including a shadow puppet and a totem pole, are a kind of symbolic speech. Included in this section is the ornate drum beaten at John F. Kennedy's funeral, made of wood, metal and cloth, with a bald eagle design on the front.  The second section, Elements of Celebration, displays objects such as masks, costumes, and chalices and components of celebrations such as dances, games and sports.  The third section, Rites of Passage, contains objects and films on birth, initiation, marriage and death. Mr. Turner has done fieldwork in Zambia, Uganda and Mexico and written several books. All societies need celebration, he said: ''If life was banal, everybody in the society would drift off into individual concerns.''  During rites of passage, initiates enter what Mr. Turner calls a liminal stage, where members ''enter a tunnel in which they are neither what they were nor what they will be.'' Masks and costumes as well as objects are used. The exhibition includes initiation rites for Burmese boys, who live like Buddhist monks for a time. 'A Sort of Blurred Identity'  In the United States, Mr. Turner said, there are several rites of passage rather than one major rite. ''This creates a sort of blurred identity in this country,'' he said. ''In other societies you just know when you are in the adult state.''  The staff had difficulties finding things for celebrations in the United States, which are often short and use disposable objects. The American items include quilts for weddings and births, a Christmas tree, a marriage contract, a funeral dress and an autographed baseball used by the 1952 Brooklyn Dodgers, as well as several American Indian objects.  The exhibition serves to contrast technological society with more primitive cultures. ''For America, technological developments seem to represent noble benchmarks in the history of the country,'' Mr. Turner said. ''The preindustrial emphasis is on deities, cosmology and the nature of the universe. We were trying to play off the cultures against one another in a kind of tapestry.''  Illustrations: photos of Indian artwork 
