20070203
 Real Time: In Search of Serendipity; Can Online Papers Recreate a Joy of Print? You Bet -- in Fact, They Already Do   By Fry, Jason, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 4, 2007  There's one common complaint I don't buy, however. And that's that an online newspaper can't possibly replicate the experience of paging through a traditional paper and having your eye alight on a story you wouldn't normally have read. The shorthand for this is "serendipity," and mourning its loss, struggling to recreate it or steadfastly defending it has become a ritual at every newspaper trying to navigate the wrenching transition between the print and online worlds.  Or maybe it's just that I'm a sucker for it: When a link leads me to a newspaper article, I've learned the hard way to avert my eyes from the Most Popular box, because I know something in it will make me curious. Maybe that something is how they spell out GO BEARS on the side of Chicago's CNA Center (Chicago Tribune), or the story of NASA's missing space tapes (Washington Post, and a serendipity two-for-one, since reading it reminded me that I'd put aside an issue of "Wired" containing another account of that tale), or an academic furor over criticism of Israel by liberal Jews (New York Times). There's my own paper's explanation of how too much frugality can hurt your credit score and how Wal-Mart gets a tax break by paying rent (to itself). Or a heartbreaking story of quilts made for wounded U.S. soldiers (Washington Post). Or how about a strange tale of a wine theft in Silicon Valley (New York Times)?  This isn't to say that online newspapers are perfect -- I'm still not interested in taking print-outs on the subway, or spending Sunday afternoon sprawled on the couch with a warm laptop. But as newspaper readers, we shouldn't let our habits blind us to possibilities, however unlikely they might seem. Just think about it: A little module designed to generate page views by appealing to our voyeurism turns out to be the solution for one of online journalism's more-vexing problems. I'd call that a bit of serendipity.   
