19811004
-------------------------------------------------------------------- Audie Bock, author of ''Japanese Film Directors,'' was assistant producer of the international film version of Akira Kurosawa's ''Kagemusha,'' and has translated Mr. Kurosawa's autobiography, scheduled for publication in 1982. By AUDIE BOCK  ''Modern technology and and I do not get along,'' says Akira Kurosawa. ''My son tells me I look like a chimpanzee when I try to dial the telephone, and it would be hopeless for me to try to drive a car.''  Despite his disclaimer, the internationally famous 71-year-old Japanese director, renowned for such films as ''Rashomon,'' ''Seven Samurai'' and ''Ikiru'' has long been regarded not only as a great artist with profound influence on such younger American counterparts as Francis Coppola and George Lucas, but also as one of the movies' foremost technical innovators.  Next Friday, Mr. Kurosawa will be present in New York City to introduce the first complete English-subtitled retrospective of 26 of his films at the Japan Society of New York. Mr. Kurosawa's work has been stimulating Western audiences since his 1950 ''Rashomon'' first drew attention to the cinema of Japan by winning an award at the Venice International Film Festival.  This film, which tells the story of rape-murder over and over again, each t ime from a different point of view, so caught the world's imagi nation that it became an Off Broadway play and later a Hollywood wes tern under the title, ''The Outrage,'' directed by Martin Ritt. Even today the expression ''Rashomon syndrome'' can occasionally be heard from psychologists and political commentators.  Before any of his contemporaries, Kurosawa-the-technical-innovator made highly effective use of telephoto lenses and multiple cameras, beginning with ''Seven Samurai''; and 70-millimeter beginning with ''Dersu Uzala.'' He quickly earned a reputation with his crew as ''the world's greatest editor,'' because of his practice of editing late at night during the shooting, whenever a batch of rushes comes up, so that he can put a fine cut on a film in as little as three weeks, as in last year's Japanese version of ''Kagemusha''  ''If I didn't edit as I go,'' asserts Mr. Kurosawa, ''I not only couldn't sleep at night, but my crew would lose track of what they are doing with multiple cameras.'' He thus describes as practical necessity a procedure that is incomprehensible to most directors, who on major productions spend at least several months with their editors assembling and cutting the film after shooting is completed.  It has only been with color film that Mr. Kurosawa has lagged behind others, waiting until 1970 to release his first, ''Dodes' Kaden.'' The reasons are obvious to anyone who has been following Martin Scorsese's color-preservation campaign, in which Mr. Kurosawa has pledged participation. ''Color film does not have the versatility and subtlety that black-and-white has,'' says Mr. Kurosawa. ''It simply can't do what I want it to do.'' Needless to say, most prints of ''Dodes' Kaden'' are hopelessly faded. And even with the lavish 70-millimeter provided by Mosfilm for the Russian language Academy Award winner, ''Derzu Uzala,'' Mr. Kurosawa laments that ''the greens were not quite as rich as I had hoped.''  In an age when his younger American associates, George Lucas and Francis Coppola, who presented ''Kagemusha,'' stand in the vanguard of computer video technology, Mr. Kurasawa approves but does not participate. ''I believe that technological advances are a vitally important aspect of the motion picture industry. One reason for the decline of the Japanese cinema today is the studios' failure to upgrade their facilities for film production - we're still using the same equipment I started out with 40 years ago. How can we compete with television or American movies under conditions like these?''  Always an advocate of better and more thorough training for those who enter the film industry, Mr. Kurosawa has apparently reached a point in his own career where he prefers to stay with what is familiar. Consequently, despite invitations f rom his American friendsto use their facilities, Mr. Kurosawa has stu ck with his old Moviola,now virtually an antique, even for the editin g of ''Kagemusha.'' ''That's where I know I'm fast.''  The early part of his retrospective, which runs through December, concentrates on Mr. Kurosawa's most popular post-''Rashomon'' works -from the prolific midpoint of his career. Next Friday's opening film, ''Yojimbo'' (1961), a swashbuckler starring the indefatigable masterless samurai Toshiro Mifune, creates an itchy, unshaven hero image that came to pervade the western, beginning with ''A Fistful of Dollars,'' a Sergio Leone remake of the Kurosawa film.  The 1952 ''Ikiru,'' perhaps the most poignant film ever made about a petty bureaucrat - an elderly widower on the verge of retirement who learns he has terminal cancer and redeems his entire life of ineffectuality in the last six months - plays next Saturday at 2 P.M., immediately followed by Mr. Kurosawa's highly-acclaimed adaptations of Western literature. ''Throne of Blood''(7:30 P.M.), Shakespeare's ''Macbeth,'' set in 16th-century Japan; ''The Lower Depths'' (Oct. 17), the Lumpenproletariat Maxim Gorky play set among the outcasts of feudal Japanese society; ''The Idiot'' (Oct. 17), Dostoyevsky's novel of Russian nobility transferred to Japan's northernmost island, are all among the most successful screen renderings of classic novels and theater. Nor did Mr. Kurosawa neglect contemporary literature: the 1949 police thriller, ''Stray Dog'' (Oct. 18) is an original script in which Mr. Kurosawa has said he tried to capture the social background of crime in the style of French novelist Georges Simenon; and the 1963 ''High and Low'' (Nov. 25), with climactic sequences shot on the Tokyo-Osaka bullet train, is loosely based on the Ed McBain thriller ''King's Ransom.'' 1 2 3 NEXT PAGE > 
