19851117
Correction Appended PHOENIX, Nov. 16— Water from the Colorado River began to spill into Phoenix's waterworks Friday, coursing 200 miles through the Central Arizona Project's big concrete canal.  The project, the Federal Government's most expensive undertaking for supplying water, has come to stand for the increasing doubts some people have about whether such giant projects are worth the cost.  Authorized by Congress in 1968, the project came to life when Interior Secretary Donald P. Hodel and Gov. Bruce Babbitt of Arizona started a pump that gave the water its final push down the canal.  'Dream Has Come True'  Bringing water from the Colorado to the dry, dusty heart of the Southwestern desert was the fruition of a yearning that Arizona farmers and developers have had for well over a hundred years. They knew that the distant Colorado, beyond several rugged mountain ranges, was the only source of enough water to make the desert bloom with cotton, alfalfa, citrus and, lately, green and grassy condominium subdivisions.  ''Today, I submit to you that we are here to celebrate the fact that the dream has come true,'' Governor Babbitt told an audience of political leaders and project boosters who came to the project office here Friday to mark the coming of the Colorado.  Bringing the water to Phoenix has cost the Government $1.2 billion. When the canal reaches its full length of 335 miles at Tucson, in 1991, construction costs for the project, which also includes dams, 12 tunnels and 4 pumping stations to raise the water 1,247 feet from the river level to the desert floor, are expected to reach $3.5 billion.  Each year the project will draw enough water to cover 1.5 million acres with water a foot deep. The cities and farmers who use it will eventually pay back most of the construction costs, but at little or no interest. For example, the Government is charging farmers $57 for an amount of water that costs $300 to $400 to deliver from the Colorado.  Latest, or Last, of Reclamations  In its size, cost and even its contradictions - much of the heavily subsidized water will go to grow crops the Government is paying farmers not to grow - the Central Arizona Project is only the latest, and many say the last, of the huge water systems that the Federal Government has undertaken since Theodore Roosevelt signed the Reclamation Act, to reclaim the desert for agriculture, in 1902.  Since then, the Bureau of Reclamation has spent $16.9 billion to dam the rivers of the West, dig the long ditches and canals to deliver the water, raise hydropower generators and control the floods of rivers that can go from dry gravel beds to raging torrents in minutes.  Without these projects much of the West would not have been settled. But as the century nears its end and local economies shift from farms to factories and services, there are many who dispute the need of such undertakings.  Environmentalists object to the disruption of nature caused by such water diversions, and many Eastern politicians view Western water projects as little but Western pork barrel. But with a single-mindedness that never dimmed, Arizonans pressed Congress and every Administration since Harry Truman's to build their dream.  A United Front  Democrats like Representative Morris K. Udall and Republicans like Senator Goldwater, farm irrigators and urban water developers, Indian tribes and chambers of commerce - all presented a united front in favor of the project. Now they feel victorious.  ''It's not pork barrel,'' Senator Dennis DeConcini, an Arizona Democrat, said at Friday's celebration. ''It's an investment in America.''  Some, like John D. Leshy, the Interior Department's solicitor in charge of natural resource law in the Carter Administration, argue that Arizona's victory has as much to do with politics as with economics.  ''Even back in '68 when Congress authorized it, everybody knew the C.A.P. wasn't really an economic project - you never heard, even then, anything about making the desert bloom,'' said Mr. Leshy, who is a professor of law at Arizona State University.  'Interstate Equity Project'  ''What it really is,'' he said, ''is a kind of interstate equity project, where all the other states in the Colorado River basin got something from Congress and now finally Arizona is getting its share. It's just that Arizona's share is a little bigger and a little more expensive than everyone else's.''  Arizona's share was authorized in water legislation that provided water projects to the other six Colorado basin states, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, California and Nevada.  Nor is Arizona the only state that has fought for its fair share of a public works bill. Long after any economic argument has been made for the $1.2 billion Garrison Diversion project in North Dakota, residents there continue to press the project as their fair share of the immense Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin water program begun in the late 1940's.  Besides its long campaign for the project itself, Arizona had to go to the Supreme Court to win its claim to Colorado River water, wresting a share from bigger, richer California. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > Correction: November 24, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition 
