19811115
ILLUMINATIONS By Tamas Aczel. 375 pp. New York: Pantheon Books. $15.50. By D.M.THOMAS  DR. GEORGE FELDHEIMER, the hero of Tamas Aczel's novel, is a Hungarian dentist living in London. He has escaped both the Nazi concentration camps and Stalin's Communism, but they continue to haunt his waking nightmares. He seems still a man under suspicion. He is interrogated by the British and is involved in a series of insidious, prolonged, harrowing experiences with various mother figures who surround him. After a car accident he goes blind, and in the hope of regaining his sight he makes an Odyssean return to mid-Europe, to Vienna.  Two pairs of spectacles confront each other on the cover of ''Illuminations''; its epigraph is the Miltonic ''What in me is dark,/ Illumine''; the chapter headings throughout are ophthalmic and frequently rhyme: Part Five, for example, consists of ''Myopia,'' ''Hypermetropia,'' ''Nyctalopia,'' ''Heme ralopia,'' ''Amblyopia'' and ''Presbyopia.'' And the novel begins with the most maternal of Feldheimer's surrogate mothers losing her false eyelashes: '' 'Good Lord,' Feldheimer heard Livia whisper, 'don't you know by any chance where I put my false eyelashes?' '' The point, in other words, is exhaustively made. The symbolism is so heavily applied that the book runs the risk of becoming a parody of the symbolist novel.  Perhaps, however, that is the author's intention. Bizarre and symbolic events punctuate Feldheimer's serious quest from start to finish. For instance, Dr. Abelim, the ophthalmic surgeon, is mysteriously murdered three days before he is due to operate on Feldheimer. The blind dentist-hero has an affair with Penelope Brown, wife of the millionaire Odysseus Brown, who has become apprenticed to a defrocked priest and maker of ecclesiastical candles. Such parodic echoes of the Odyssey also encompass Leopold Bloom, Joyce's wanderer by the Liffey. Furthermore, Feldheimer is Bloom's age; he is an even more dispossessed and alienated Jew; and he has sad memories of his dead father, a rationalist who ''knew everything about everything - mushrooms, beasts, --------------------------------------------------------------------- D.M. Thomas's most recent novel is ''The White Hotel.'' books, bookshops, what have you - but he didn't know one single goddam tale!''  Feldheimer's own mind - like Bloom's - is stuffed with dusty, fossilized bits and pieces of information, more intellectual and Judaic even than those that occupy the Dubliner. The narrator often interjects into his hero's thoughts the sentimental tone of Gertie MacDowell's girlish vision of Leopold Bloom: ''With his recurring, ominous nightmare that made his heart - his aching, aging heart! - contract and jump.'' Feldheimer and Bloom are serious and comic figures; but whereas we find no difficulty in seeing Bloom in focus, through the double lenses of seriousness and comedy, Feldheimer tends to split apart - now a tragic victim, now a figure of parody.  The comparison with Joyce is of course grossly unfair to Tamas Aczel, as it would be to almost any contemporary novelist; yet it is suggested not only by the evident thematic connections but also by the ambitious scope of ''Illuminations.'' A novel of large proportions and considerable virtuosity, it has to be read with the concentration one gives to poetry. The style veers between the densely sensuous and the irritatingly euphuistic, though the latter, I am afraid, predominates.  The sentences carry too much flesh and fat; so much so that, like grotesquely fat human beings, they evoke a kind of horrified admiration. '' 'Those are most beautiful candles, Erika,' Odysseus Brown said, his pleasant, soft voice slightly melancholy, slightly affected like that of an Oxford don which he had always wanted to be but had never succeeded, according at least, to rumors and gossips that buzzed around his luxurious villa on Hampstead Lane in Northwood, just above Kenwood House and a few hundred yards from Spaniard's, like a swarm of bees.'' Such a monstrous sentence, overloaded with information (much of it of little point), bad grammar and cliche, skirts the uncertain border where monstrosity becomes fascinating. Similarly, when Feldheimer makes a phone call he hears the ''sharp rings,'' which, ''like so many little needles, punctured the balloon of silence in that room he had once known so well.'' How many needles does it take to puncture a balloon?  Mr. Aczel, a Hungarian who now lives in the United States and is the author of ''The Ice Age,'' elsewhere writes with such strength and beauty that he must, surely, have his tongue in his cheek for the greater part of this book, when he writes badly. But if so, I can't see the point. Perhaps the narrator's style is intended to suggest the hero's imaginative blindness. In that case, the author is playing a desperately chancygame with the reader's tolerance. The very first sentence of the book, already quoted -Lydia's question about her eyelashes - is so uncolloquial that it immediately creates a strangely blurred impression; deliberately perhaps, and perhaps even cleverly, since Lydia's English is acquired, not native; but one can never be sure. Throughout, ''Illuminations'' threatens to engulf the reader in a London pea-souper.  In the end, Feldheimer's vision is restored; he gazes down from Parliament Hill onto the city of London; and we look back at a novel that is, though seriously flawed, daring and often rewarding.  Illustrations: drawing 
