19811107
WASHINGTON, Nov. 6— Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr., disputing Leonid I. Brezhnev's assertions of ''approximate parity'' in nuclear forces in Europe, has said that the Soviet Union has roughly a 3-to-1 advantage over the United States in missiles and aircraft.  But Mr. Haig, saying he was ''leery'' of such aggregate numerical comparisons, contended that the Soviet numerical edge did not give the Kremlin nuclear superiority in Europe. He said overall calculations were affected by accuracy, underlying military structures and ''countless unquantifiable characteristics.''  In the coming Soviet-American talks on medium-range nuclear forces, to start in Geneva on Nov. 30, the Americans are expected to focus on reductions in land-based missiles, rather than aircraft and submarines, Mr. Haig said in an interview.  Big Soviet Edge in Warheads  He cautioned that the final negotiating proposals had not yet been put before President Reagan, but he was ''inclined to think'' that land-based missiles would be the primary American focus.  The Reagan Administration says the Soviet Union has a 6-to-1 advantage in medium-range, land-based missiles in Europe, with an inventory of 600 to 650 arrayed against 108 American Pershing-1 missiles in West Germany. Since each Soviet SS-20 missile carries three independently targeted warheads to one warhead for the Pershing-1, Pentagon officials say the Soviet advantage is even greater.  During the interview, Secretary Haig responded positively, though cautiously, to Mr. Brezhnev's recent declaration that Soviet military doctrine ''excludes preventive wars and the concept of a 'first strike.' '' 'Propaganda' vs. 'Conviction'  Mr. Haig said this was ''not unwelcome,'' but he was quick to caution that ''it is always very difficult to parse out the differences between propaganda posturing and substantive conviction'' since one major Soviet aim was ''sowing the seeds of discord'' among the Western allies.  ''There has clearly been a heavy underpinning of propaganda in recent Soviet expositions,'' Mr. Haig went on. ''On the other hand, when such statements are made at high levels, they clearly also take on sustantive overtones, and anything that is an expression of moderation and sensitivity on the question is not unwelcome.''  So far, Mr. Haig said, the unity of the Western governments ''has been admirably solid and consistent'' in the face of Soviet propaganda and large demonstrations in Western Europe protesting plans to deploy 592 American Pershing-2 missiles and cruise missiles in Europe in 1983.  The Secretary, a former supreme commander of NATO forces, said there were ''several worrisome'' potential consequences from the European protest movement. Protests May Cross Atlantic  One, he said, is the danger of the demonstrations moving across the Atlantic to the United States. Another is that American frustration with European sentiment may lead to a United States tendency to pull back from the defense of Europe, he said.  ''I suggest that it is nowhere near that point today,'' he emphasized. He added that it would be a mistake for Americans to ''misread'' the European mood as ''a pacifist and neutralist trend.'' He contended that it was something more limited - ''a heightened concern about all things nuclear.''  Some United States officials have been concerned that Soviet negotiators would seek a European nuclear freeze at current levels before the new American deployments. They have emphasized, as Mr. Haig did in Congressional testimony this week, that the American objective was to bring about ''substantial reductions'' in Soviet forces.  But when Mr. Haig was asked whether this meant that freezes were unacceptable, he replied: ''I don't want to say they are not acceptable. What I want to say is that that is not our objective.'' Reagan May Have to Step In  Some Pentagon officials, such as Richad N. Perle, Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy, have been more categorical, and President Reagan may have to resolve their differences.  Mr. Perle, co-chairman of the interdepartmental group developing the American negotiating position, said in an interview: ''We're determined not to repeat the mistake of the past by accepting agreements that legitimize the Soviet buildup. We have categorically rejected a freeze because that would leave the Soviets with a monopoly of long-range theater nuclear missiles.''  But both Secretary Haig and Mr. Perle said the negotiating team would seek to change the terms for determining nuclear strength. The United States would like nuclear might judged in terms of warheads or explosive power, not missile launchers.  They said the negotiating team would also seek greater Soviet cooperation in developing the means for verifying compliance with any arms agreement.  The two negotiating approaches represent something of a departure from the tactics of earlier administrations. Brezhnev Sees Nuclear Parity  Mr. Perle said the preliminary interagency consensus was that the United States would also oppose Soviet efforts to include bombers and fighter-bombers in a European nuclear accord. He said it would also oppose persistent Soviet attempts to have the Americans discuss 263 British and French missiles and bombers in Soviet-American negotiations.  In a recent interview with the West German news magazine Der Spiegel Mr. Brezhnev contended that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries had 986 land- and submarine-based nuclear missiles and land- and sea-based aircraft, while the Soviet Union had only 975 ''units of similar arms at its disposal.''  In contesting these figures, American officials said the Soviet leader had included large numbers of American fighter-bombers and other aircraft that could be used for nuclear missions, but had excluded similar aircraft from the Soviet totals. 
