20071011
 The Afternoon Report: Cutting to the Core Online edition  By Phillips, Matt, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 12, 2007  Leaving in the dust yesterday's weak September results from individual retailers, a separate government measure of the sector beat expectations today, climbing 0.6% from August. The results surprised economists polled by Dow Jones Newswires who had forecast a consensus 0.3% increase for the month. After stripping out volatile -- though substantial -- sales of automobiles from the Commerce Department report, so-called core retail spending rose 0.4%. And much of the oomph in that number came from sales at gas stations, which rose by 2% largely because of higher fuel prices. Since, over time, high prices at the pump can siphon off cash consumers might otherwise spend elsewhere, risings gas-station sales aren't necessarily a sanguine economic omen. Analysts who peeled away both gas and auto results found a much-less-muscular 0.2% rise in retail sales. Some, such as Ian Shepherdson of High Frequency Economics, also pulled out food sales -- which have also seen price jumps -- ending up with a puny core number of 0.1% for retail sales. "If, as we expect, October sales are more or less flat too, this would mark the softest three-month patch since the spring of 03, during the invasion of Iraq. Finally, cracks are appearing," he wrote.  Oracle made an unsolicited $6.66 billion offer for business- management software maker BEA Systems, which has been under pressure from investor Carl Icahn to consider a sale of the company. Oracle's all-cash bid values BEA -- a company that specializes in "middleware," software that is used to connect back-end databases with the interfaces end users actually use -- at $17 a share, a 25% premium to its closing price Thursday. Shares quickly jumped above the offer price in trading Friday, amid speculation that the offer could trigger a bidding war for the San Jose, Calif., company. "BEA would instantly give Oracle one of the top-two middleware brands (along with IBM), leading technology, and a large customer base and maintenance stream. Given that we do not believe BEA is a willing seller at this offer price, the process could be drawn out over some time," wrote Goldman Sachs analysts.   
