19810918
WASHINGTON, Sept. 17— One advantage of a ne w problem is that it shrinks the memory of old ones. The current s ystem of providing crucial foreign policy advice to the Presiden t is a sorry example.  The National Security Council was devised, under President Truman, to coordinate conflicting Government views on issues that cut across lines of responsibility. It is natural that the Pentagon, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the State Department, the Treasury, the C.I.A., and often departments such as Commerce and Agriculture see the same question in different lights.  In order to decide, the President needs to know all possible choices and their implications. And it is natural that the more important the issue, the more his advisers will argue.  Over the years, however, N.S.C. power grew and grew until it rivaled the departments it was supposed to probe for information. The result was the eclipse of State during the Kissinger years and the damaging tug-of-war during the Brzezinski-Vance years, scarcely muted during Edmund Muskie's brief sojourn at State.  Critics, including myself, said this was a self-defeating way to run a government. It confused Americans and, worse, left foreign governments unsure which U.S. foreign policy was the real one.  The Reagan Administration came determined to end the muddle and restore order and accountable authority. The Secretary of State was named chief spokesman for foreign policy, the N.S.C. was ordered to keep a low profile, and the bureaucratic infighters were told to get in line.  It is now clear this hasn't worked. Nothing doesn't take the place of something. The N.S.C. no longer heads key inter-agency committees dealing with major questions like arms control negotiations, relations with the Russians, the Middle East and so on, and there isn't any real coordination. There are persistent and increasingly harsh battles for turf, and decisions are made without adequately weighing the factors involved.  Nor, despite early talk about overall review of the big issues, is there an effective effort to ask basic questions of policy goals and seek new ideas.  Thoughtful people in every part of Washington are worried about this situation now, and are chewing over possible solutions. The old National Security Council system wasn't satisfactory. The new one settles little. What then? Some exampl es illustrate the trouble. Middle East policy is now on a bewildering and dangerous drift. The Air Force, eager to sell expensive Awa cs reconnaissance planes, which NATO over the years refused to he lp finance, thought up offering them to Saudi Arabia.  The Saudis liked the idea as a symbol of U.S. concern for their security. From every other point of view we are better off with American-owned and -operated planes patrolling the sensitive Persian Gulf, as now. That doesn't upset Israel and it guarantees U.S. control of a highly secret system that adversaries, and not only Russians, would love to get their hands on.  Now the U.S. has offered Israel ''strategic cooperation'' as reassurance to balance the Saudi deal. Details are to be worked out at a meeting of U.S. and Israeli Defense Ministers in November, after Congress votes on Awacs. Meanwhile, nobody is sure what ''strategic cooperation'' means.  One bad idea is being traded off against another. Resentments have reached the stage where the President's defeat on the issue can be disastrous to him abroad and at home.  Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel was given a particularly warm reception in Washington in hopes of soothing his misgivings. It was so warm, in fact, that he said President Reagan didn't even mention the two most prickly issues during their two meetings. One is to distinguish offensive and defensive Israeli use of American weapons. The other is the West Bank, key to fulfilling the Camp David agreement.  Another example is continued waffling on the China-Taiwan issue. According to insiders, a memo from Secretary Haig was held up a month so as not to distract the President from his economic program.  The N.S.C. is neither filtering, coordinating nor recommending. Old-timers maintain that the system used to work. But foreign policy issues have become immensely more complex, far more embroiled with domestic issues since President Eisenhower's time, and the solution is not obvious. It may be partly structure, partly personality. Maybe we need a council of elder statesmen to consider the ways of the world and give the President outside advice on how to take the initiative. Maybe we need a super-cabinet office of Secretary for Foreign Policy with authority over existing departments.  Clearly, we need a more coherent approach to foreign policy reflecting both expertise and vision. 
