20040213
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Backyard on Ice   By Fletcher, June, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 13, 2004  It's not always popular with the neighbors, either. In the upscale suburb of Bloomfield Village, Mich., a homeowner sparked a protracted battle when he installed a $25,000 rink with an ice-making machine. Neighbors complained about the noise and appearance, eventually persuading the township zoning board to order the rink's removal. "It was big and unattractive, and made a droning hum in the middle of the night," says Larry Nutson, manager of the homeowners association. The homeowner, Dan Israel, found a way to keep skating, though: He bought a secluded lot a mile away and moved the rink. To thaw any opposition, he plays host to frequent skating parties, where he hands out hot chocolate and S'mores. "I'm trying to be user-friendly," he says.  Cold Remedies Homeowners are using their backyards more during the winter. Here's a sampling of some recent products. ITEM/COST: Backyard Groomer; $496; www.xcskigroomers.com WHAT IT IS: Attachment to a snowmobile for grooming cross-country trails COMMENT: You'll need at least 10 acres to get much use out of this device, which XC Ski Groomers owner invented three years ago to cut trails in his own backyard. ITEM/COST: Galaxy Hot Tub; $35,000; www.calspas.com WHAT IT IS: Six-seat hot tub with 49 jets and fiber-optic lighting COMMENT: This new hot tub has deeper seats, so you're not exposed to the winter chill. An optional robe warmer costs $299. ITEM/COST: Ski Slope; $10,000 to $20,000; www.haywardgardens.com WHAT IT IS: A ski run that's 20 feet wide and 1,000 feet long COMMENT: Westminster West, Vt., landscape designer Gordon Hayward recommends using a meadow instead of cutting down trees. ITEM/COST: Ice Rinks; $18,500 and up; www.customicerinks.com WHAT IT IS: A 20-by-30-foot rink with concrete flooring and wooden and rubber insulated sides COMMENT: Custom Ice owner Dave Gagner, a former New York Rangers hockey player, says he's branching out with accessories like the $8,400 Rink Rover, a lawn tractor with an attachment that turns it into a Zamboni. ITEM/COST: 'Blizzard Sport'; $1,995; www.backyardblizzard.com WHAT IT IS: A device that attaches to a garden hose to shoot 50 cubic feet of snow an hour (MORE)  COMMENT: Dave Ozzello of St. Charles, Ill., created a mini-ski slope with this product. Now his three sons and their friends snowboard almost every winter weekend. The unit is so popular, there's a waiting list. ITEM/COST: Patio Greenhouse; $790; www.smithandhawken.com WHAT IT IS: Small-scale redwood greenhouse COMMENT: You can start spring seeds in this small greenhouse for the patio. It has hydraulic heat-activated vents to withstand nature's elements. ITEM/COST: 'Winter Carnival'; dogwoods, $30/pair; of 2-foot high plants www.whiteflowerfarm.com WHAT IT IS: Red and yellow shrubs COMMENT: These bare-root plantings are recent offerings at nursery White Flower Farm. "Customers say, 'I have a garden that looks great in June, but what about winter?'" says spokeswoman Renee Beaulieu.   
