19810724
MARCEL BREUER'S death three weeks ago at the age of 79 was not merely the end of the career of a true master of 20th-century design - it was, in a sense, also the severing of a crucial link between our time and the golden years of modern design's infancy. Mr. Breuer was the last of the great masters of the Bauhaus, that extraordinary German school of design. His work at the Bauhaus, and during the post-Bauhaus decades of the 1930's and 40's, had a freshness and excitement to it that seemed, in and of itself, to encapsulate all the promise of the modern movement.  The retrospective view of Mr. Breuer's furniture designs and interiors that opens tomorrow at the Museum of Modern Art is an affectionate and altogether appropriate tribute. It was planned long before the architect's death, and it was not intended as a final review of his career, but merely as a chance to examine in depth his contribution to the design of 20th-century interiors. Mr. Breuer was active as an architect until he retired in 1976, and he produced a number of buildings of considerable note, such as the Whitney Museum in New York and the Unesco headquarters in Paris, but history will probably record his furniture designs as his greatest work of all.  What is on view at the Museum of Modern Art is the entire range of this prolific designer's work, from his early 1920's studies of wooden furniture - little-known pieces that bear the clear stamp of the constructivist work of Gerrit Rietveld - on through to his celebrated tubular steel furniture of the late 1920's and 30's, and his cutout plywood furniture of the late 1930's .  All the well-known Breuer pieces, of course, are here - the Wassily chair of 1927, with its original canvas seat rather than the leather seat with which this popular piece is now manufactured; the Cesca chair, that cantilevered chair with cane seating that has become so popular that it seems to be at every dining table in the United States; the Thonet lounge chair of 1928-29, a piece at once graceful and comfortable.  But there is a remarkable number of less-known pieces, and it is by bringing them together that this exhibition makes its real scholarly contribution. There are several very special pleasures here. One is a wall unit of wood, glass and metal designed by Mr. Breuer in 1926 for an apartment in Berlin, which is a Mondrianlike composition of considerable intricacy; it must surely rank as a major piece of International Style cabinetwork. There is also a faithful reproduction of a 1931 couch of tubular steel and upholstered cushions that had disappeared; it was made for the exhibition from a single photograph, the only record of its existence. And the exhibition also includes a 1929 tea cart of tubular steel, which calls to mind Alvar Aalto's popular, but in fact far less practical, tea carts.  The show, which was organized by J. Stewart Johnson and Christopher Wilk, also includes photographs of Mr. Breuer's house and apartment interiors, works of design that have received too little documentation and advertising material from the original production runs of many of these pieces in the 1920's. It is especially well installed -the design is sleek and open, very much in the modern style that the objects on view epitomize. And Mr. Wilk has written a thorough catalogue, which pays particular attention to the broader social and cultural implications of Mr. Breuer's furniture designs. It reminds us that Mr. Breuer's tubular-steel furniture, which seems now almost tame, was once thought so radical as to be unsuitable for any domestic environment. The show runs until Sept. 15.  While the Breuer show is a joyous celebration of one sort, a new exhibition at the Hudson River Museum in Yonkers is an equally joyous, not to say exuberant, celebration of another kind. The ''ordinary'' architecture of the American landscape - the neon signs, the motels, the gas stations, the diners - has been a subject of serious attention from architectural historians for some time now, and it is no longer a surprise to get the news that such and such a Midwestern gas station in the shape of an Indian tepee has just been named to the National Register of Historic Places. Indeed, there have been three books on diners alone published in the last few years.  The architectural historian John Margolies must surely be the father of this entire movement - he has led dozens of his colleagues toward an appreciation of those buildings that might be called the exclamation points of the landscape, and he has himself been wandering across America's back roads, camera in hand, for more than a decade. Mr. Margolies's world is that of the old highway, the lonely concrete strip bypassed by the interstate, where motel courts and neon signs and roadside diners still linger.  He has now assembled the best of his discoveries in an exhibition titled ''The End of the Road,'' which will be on view at the Hudson River Museum through Sept. 15. It is easy to be too sentimental on this subject - after all, when the point is lovable buildings it is not hard to present them like puppy dogs more than like architecture -but Mr. Margolies does not fall victim to this temptation. The exhibition consists of 128 color photographs, all quite large and all exquisitely composed and printed - good enough to make this exhibition worth seeing as pure photography, as well as for its subject matter.  As to the subject matter, it is pure joy. One need not agree with Mr. Margolies that the supper club in the shape of a fish or the bright-red neon Socony horse sign are as significant in the history of architecture as, say, Marcel Breuer, to derive immense pleasure from this exhibition and the book of the same name that the museum, in association with Penguin Books, has published as a catalogue.  If this show has any real significance beyond the sheer enjoyment it offers, it is as an articulate plea against the homogenization of the American landscape - against the uniform Holiday Inns that have come to replace the eccentric and different motel courts, against the McDonald's stands that have taken the place of so many diners and cafes and snack bars all along the American road.  The difference is not only one of pure style. It goes deeper. The eccentric, special buildings that once lined the back roads were all, in a sense, innocents; they spoke of architecture as embracing, simply and easily, the ideas of the moment. The building in the shape of a coffee pot or a milk bottle is a sign and it is a celebration; it takes surprise and delight as its theme. There is neither surprise nor delight in the roadside landscape we build today - there is a kind of corporate cynicism instead. We are really too grown up in the way we build today, Mr. Margolies is saying - we have lost our innocence even in those places where being grown up doesn't matter.  Illustrations: photo of Bob's Java Jive in Tacoma, Washington 
