20050913
 Real-Estate Bonds Will Likely Take Hit In Wake of Katrina   By Haughney, Christine, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 14, 2005  Issuers of commercial mortgage-backed securities are still trying to get a sense of what kind of insurance policies their borrowers have. The National Flood Insurance Program says that commercial-property owners are eligible for as much as $500,000 in insurance for the building and $500,000 for the building's furniture, fixtures and equipment. Beyond that, lenders encourage commercial owners to take out private full-coverage insurance for windstorms and floods. Some hotels affected by Hurricane Katrina had as much as $1 billion in private all-risk insurance, says Gary Thompson, a partner at Gilbert Heintz & Randolph, a Washington, D.C., law firm advising real-estate investment trusts active in the Gulf area.  "We're hearing anecdotally from servicers that there will be many loans which will be underinsured for coverage of flood," says Larry Kay, director of structured-finance ratings for Standard & Poor's. "We don't know each individual situation."  "There is going to be federal assistance to these people," says Pramila Gupta, senior vice president in the residential mortgage- backed securities group at Moody's Investors Service. "It's really in everyone's interest to get them back to their lives again rather than push them into bankruptcy."  Issuers of commercial mortgage-backed securities are still trying to get a sense of what kind of insurance policies their borrowers have. The National Flood Insurance Program says that commercial-property owners are eligible for as much as $500,000 in insurance for the building and $500,000 for the building's furniture, fixtures and equipment. Beyond that, lenders encourage commercial owners to take out private full-coverage insurance for windstorms and floods. Some hotels affected by Hurricane Katrina had as much as $1 billion in private all-risk insurance, says Gary Thompson, a partner at Gilbert Heintz & Randolph, a Washington, D.C., law firm advising real-estate investment trusts active in the Gulf area.  "We're hearing anecdotally from servicers that there will be many loans which will be underinsured for coverage of flood," says Larry Kay, director of structured-finance ratings for Standard & Poor's. "We don't know each individual situation."  "There is going to be federal assistance to these people," says Pramila Gupta, senior vice president in the residential mortgage- backed securities group at Moody's Investors Service. "It's really in everyone's interest to get them back to their lives again rather than push them into bankruptcy."   
