19811228
PASADENA, Calif., Dec. 27— The parade was scheduled to begin in less than an hour, and 25-year-old Robyn Parnell was still trying to make up her mind. ''I'm still considering joining in,'' she said. ''That's the spirit of doo dah - spur of the moment.''  The Doo Dah Parade is a light-hearted alternative, or appetizer, to the elaborate Tournament of Roses parade and its costly floats, often sponsored by major corporations, covered with flowers in an astonishing array of designs.  The entries in today's Doo Dah Parade were astonishing, too. Unlike the New Year's Day parade, this pageant, held regularly on the Sunday preceding the Rose Parade, has no rules regulating participation. The result is a diverse and humorous collection, with most entries from Southern California.  Among this year's entries, for example, were ''Toro, Toro, Toro,'' the world's only power lawnmower drill team; the Los Angeles County Medical Center School of Nursing's precision crutch-walking team and bedpan corps; the book-clapping Amazing Fully Booked Band from the Pasadena Public Library, and a Synchronized Briefcase drill team of 20 bankers, lawyers and executives who marched dressed in conservative three-piece business suits. Parade Began As a Spoof  Although most entrants said they were involved ''for the fun of it,'' at least some participants tried to add some political flavor to the parade. These groups included ''Californians for a Fair Water Policy,'' and the Clothing Optional Society, whose members carried signs advocating legalized nude beaches, such as ''Bare With Us'' and ''Happy Nude Year.''  The parade began five years ago as a spoof of the Tournament of Roses Parade, according to Peter Apanel, the Pasadena resident who is credited with beginning the Doo Dah Parade.  ''The original idea was to do it for just one year,'' Mr. Apanel said, ''but now we're doing it again for the fifth time. There's no way to stop it.''  The appeal of the parade for many participants, such as 17-year-old Steve Knapp of Arcadia, is its very disorganization and lack of structure. Mr. Knapp and seven of his friends, all of whom play the tuba, will play in the Tournament of Roses Parade on Jan. 1 with the rest of their high school band. ''In the Rose Parade, you've got to be good,'' Mr. Knapp said. ''We spend so much time marching straight forward that it's fun to be so disorganized.'' As the eight members of ''The Toga Tubas'' prepared to march, Mr. Knapp said the group still had not chosen a marching routine. ''We'll make it up as we go,'' he said. First Out-of-State Entry  According to Mr. Apanel, fewer than 25 percent of this year's entries are Pasadena residents, as against more than 80 percent the first year of the parade. The parade had its first out-of-state entry this year - the hobbyhorse-toting ''Lone Star Armadillo Posse'' from Dallas.  Mr. Apanel estimated that this year's 63 entries included 500 participants. The Pasadena police said that as many as 35,000 spectators lined the parade route, two-thirds of a mile long, which is also part of the Tournament of Roses route.  ''I think people are able to recognize that we're not the U.S.C. marching band,'' said Carroll Cervantes, who with 11 other waitresses from Barney's Ltd., and One West California, two local restaurants, entered as a drill team. ''We're relaxed but we're together,'' Miss Cervantes said.  Illustrations: photo of marchers in the Doo Dah Parade 
