19810921
HANAU, West Germany, Sept. 20— War and war games have one thing in common: the unexpected is an ever-present element. The manner in which troops handle the unexpected is a sign of their effectiveness. Units of the United States Seventh Infantry Division were pulled out of their base at Fort Ord, Calif., to particpate in NATO's Certain Encounter excercise.  The division's vehicles traveled in a military sealift freighter, the Meteor, which belied its name. The Meteor had two mechanical breakdowns on the voyage from the Pacific coa st through the Panama Canal to Europe.  It reached Ghent, Belgium, the port of disembarkation, four days late. The Seventh Division's soldiers unloaded the vehicles with the aid of two cranes operated by Belgian port workers. The troops then moved overland to deploy and join the exercise at Giessen. Potential Weakness in Strategy  The operation demonstrated the division's ability to overcome the unexpected. It also drew attention to a potential weakness in the American strategy of reinforcing the Seventh Army with airborne troops and airborne equipment. Apart from the mechanical breakdowns that plagued the Meteor, there would be the danger in war of submarine or air operations against convoys crossing the Atlantic.  The Soviet air threat is increasing, according to Rear Adm. George E.R. Kinnear, the United States representative on NATO's military committee. He said that more of the bombers known in the West as the Backfire were being assigned to the Soviet Navy and that these, with their missiles, have increased the danger to allied sea communications.  The Army in a war crisis would depend heavily on the war materiel already stored in 14 bases throughout West Germany. In theory, if the tanks were still intact all that would be required of a tank battalion would be to install batteries, fuel and be off to war.  It is taken for granted that the Soviet Union knows the location of each warehouse. But it is also assumed that antiaircraft weapons and fighte r p rotection would protect the warehouses from air attack or airborne a ssault.  Certain Encounter, which is about to enter its second week, has already provided some valuable lessons. These have nothing to do with winning or losing a preprogrammed operation. They deal with the elementals of force flexibility and speed in action.  Three helicopters have been used extensively to carry infantry behind enemy positions. The infantry takes possession of an area and then awaits the approach of its own armor.  Lieut. Gen. Paul S. Williams Jr., commanding the exercise, thinks this has worked reasonably well, although helicopter crews had been prone to linger too long in landing zones, thus giving away the operation.  American troops have been criticized for not making sufficient use of West German villages for headquarters. General Williams believes that units from brigade size and up should make use of the villages because their buildings mask heat-seeking and infrared sensors employed by the other side. Officers on both sides have noted a tendency by American commanders to depend too much on electronic intelligence. British and West German forces have done more with aggressive patrolling to gain intelligence.  The rolling countryside of northern Hesse should be the tank commander's paradise. But the exercise has so far shown that, up to a point, defense in depth by infantry equipped with antitank missiles can check all but the biggest tank attacks.  Realism is difficult when operations are carried out in the middle of curious crowds of German civilians. The Army did its best with a simulated gas decontaminaton exercise in Hassenhausen. A battalion of the 13th Infantry was ''hit'' by a chemical spray spread by four aircraft. The decontamination process took about 30 minutes for each soldier. 
