19810422
''MANIFESTATIONS of Shiva'' is the title of an art exhibition touring the United States and of a related film produced for the Asian Society. The exhibition, at the Philadelphia Museum of Art until June 7, shows how Indian artists have conceived of the Hindu god over 2,000 years. The film, on WNET-TV, Channel 13, tonight at 10:30 o'clock, attempts to convey the very experience of Shiva worship.  At the outset, a narrator explains that Shiva, one of the supreme Hindu gods, is both the lord of life and the destroyer of life. The complex duality is total, encompassing male and female, birth and death, the sacred and the profane. The whole is symbolized in an elaborate dance inspired by the four key stages of life from youth to old age. This film, reflecting the cyclical view of another reality, then sets out to ''explore all these ideas without any further narration.''  Although occasionally verging on the pictorial slickness of some very expensive magazines, the images are generally stunning. Beginning with water rippling onto a sun-burnished shore, they shift to scenes of a boy washing animals or a young man emerging from his public bath to perform a careful ritual with salves, paints and ornaments. As other young men begin an arduous process of putting on makeup for a public performance, older men work on creating a dazzling representation of Shiva on a large patch of ground.  Gradually, the emphasis shifts to older people, some teaching, some meditating, some playing a sitar and capturing the rhythms of brooks and waterfalls. Finally, with a young child squatting before a pyre, a body is cremated. The film's more dominant images are briefly reviewed in reverse. The young man seen at the beginning sits on a shore fingering his beads and scattering his brilliantly colored flowers.  Written, directed and photographed by Malcolm Leigh, ''Manifestations of Shiva'' is itself something of a meditative exercise. Those knowing little or nothing about Shiva are likely to remain unenlightened or be downright puzzled. A man massaging a youth with his foot, a formal dance class, the linga, or erect phallus, as a symbol of Shiva, the expressionless, totally absorbed faces of the worshipers, the almost total absence of women - there is much here that begs for helpful commentary.  And, needless to say, all of these beautiful images are nestled in a lulling vacuum. There are no intrusions of some of the less seductive realities of India - the poverty, for instance, or the caste system that even determines who will play what parts in Shiva rituals. Mr. Leigh's exquisite film, in other words, has its limitations. For those wanting more information, one partial solution would be to obtain a copy of the Philadelphia Museum's ''Ways to Shiva: Life and Ritual in Hindu India,'' written by Joseph M. Dye.  Earlier on WNET-TV, at 8 P.M., Boston station WGBH-TV's ''World'' offers ''No More Mountains: The Story of the Hmong,'' described by Judith Vecchione as a ''story about a diaspora and about America.'' Wandering southward through China for over 2,000 years, the Hmong ended up high in the mountains of Laos. They were then blown out of their mountains and left homeless by the Vietnam War.  Complicating this sympathetic portrait of a once-free people reduced to the status of wandering refugees is the fact that the Hmong's chief cash crop was opium. They themselves are said to have used the drug only for the sick and elderly. But opium figures prominently in some of the documentary's more sensational allegations, including a charge that the Central Intelligence Agency may have been ''moving'' opium for profit, and that one Hmong leader, now living in the United States, was a kingpin in the opium trade. Both charges are vigorously denied.  Of more immediate import are the Hmong people, who fought with the Americans in Vietnam and believed that they would be taken care of in the future. Some have managed to come to this country, others have been shipped to South America, many are still in refugee camps. Their plight is recorded here with the observation that there are ''no more mountains to protect them from the rest of the world.'' This program argues, persuasively, that the United States owes the Hmong a good deal more than it has given so far. 
