20051220
 New Genetic Tests Boost Impact of Drugs; Cancer Screens, Moves by FDA Help Launch Era Of Personalized Medicine, but Strategy Is Still Young   By Ron Winslow and Anna Wilde Mathews, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 21, 2005  By contrast, the coming wave of "pharmacogenomic" tests detect genetic variations in the patient that affect how he or she responds to drugs. For instance, the new Mayo Clinic test determines whether patients have an genetic variation that increases their risk of a toxic reaction to the colon-cancer drug, called irinotecan, which can lead to diarrhea and life-threatening infection. A handful of other pharmacogenomics tests are on the market. A test known as TMPT, for example, checks for a genetic variation that puts patients at risk of toxicity to a leukemia drug and affects about 1% of such patients. It isn't known exactly how many new genetic tests are in development, but the Mayo Clinic currently sells six such tests to its customers, and it expects to add 12 more to its inventory next year.  The blood thinner warfarin, irinotecan and other chemotherapy drugs have what doctors call a narrow therapeutic window, where a dose that's a little too high can provoke serious side effects, while one a little too low provides little benefit. Genetic variability can influence a drug's effect. "We haven't been accounting for it," says Matthew Goetz, a Mayo Clinic oncologist. "Now we will account for it and it will help us individualize medicine in a better way."  Warfarin is a complicated drug for doctors to prescribe. Patients are at risk of internal bleeding if they get too high a dose, or blood clots if they don't get enough. But scientists have found two genetic markers that help signal what dose to give a patient. Between them, they can affect the recommended dose by more than 50% -- reducing the typical starting dose from 5 milligrams to 2 mg, for instance. The new tests will be "an important option for patients beginning warfarin," says Brian Gage, associate professor at Washington University in St. Louis who is leading an National Institutes of Health-funded study of genetic markers for the drug.   
