19850217
The Cuban leader Fidel Castro said in an interview broadcast Friday that he believed the fears generated by the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 enabled the United States and the Soviet Union to achieve a period of detente later on.  ''When the war came very close,'' Mr. Castro said, ''then the leaders of the two big powers became more aware about that danger. They worked. They were able to achieve detente.''  Mr. Castro was interviewed for four hours on Feb. 8 in Havana by Robert MacNeil of ''The MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour.'' Parts of the interview have been broadcast over the last week.  The Cuban leader said that after the failure of the American-supported invasion of the Bay of Pigs by Cuban exiles on April 17, 1961, Soviet officials asked him what measures might forestall another invasion.  'The Greatest Guarantee'  ''So, then,'' he said, ''we said that the only guarantee, the greatest guarantee that could be obtained, the most sure one, was the fact that an aggression against Cuba meant an aggression against the Soviet Union.  ''The concrete idea of the missile was theirs,'' he said.  Although the notion of missiles created ''political inconveniences,'' he said, Cuba did not hesitate to accept ''because we were being harassed.''  Accepting the missiles, he said, created a ''nuclear umbrella'' because aggression against Cuba with conventional weapons might set off a general nuclear war.  The decision was also correct and legitimate from both moral and legal points of view, he said, particularly in light of the American deployment of missiles in Europe.  Mr. Castro said that when the United States discovered missiles in Cuba and demanded in October 1962 that they be removed, he believed that nuclear war was a possibility. Still, he felt, the United States was to blame for creating the crisis.  He said he had protested the decision to withdraw the missiles by Nikita S. Khrushchev, then the Soviet leader. His principal objection, he indicated, was that he was not consulted in advance.  Relations with the Soviet Union cooled for a time, he said, but Khrushchev continued to defend his decision. The Soviet leader explained, Mr. Castro said, that ''a war was avoided and Cuba was not invaded.''  When detente developed during the 1970's, ''it was proven that they were right,'' he said, ''that a war, a nuclear war was avoided and that Cuba was not invaded.''  The interview with the Cuban leader was the first on American television since Barbara Walters interviewed him for ABC News six years ago. 
