19810309
LOS ANGELES THE other actors on ''Three's Company'' were off rehearsing. But on a recent weekday afternoon Suzanne Somers sat in the sun-filled living room of her seven-level house overlooking the Pacific Ocean and tried to explain why she has virtually disappeared from the hit ABC-TV comedy series that started her to stardom four years ago.  Like many disputes in Hollywood, the origin of this one was money. Miss Somers and her manager-husband, Alan Hamel, say her $30,000-a-week salary is below that of comparable stars on other successful television series and that her contribution to ''Three's Company'' should entitle her to a share of the profits in a series that is expected to earn its producers more than $100 million. 'A Nest Egg While You Can'  The producers, Michael Ross, Bernie West and Ted Bergmann, contend that Miss Somers's demands are excessive, that she began as an unknown, that she has received generous raises during the last four years and that they are under no obligation to share the show's profits with her. ABC has taken the side of the producers.  ''When you're talking about these sums of money, it's difficult to generate much sympathy,'' Miss Somers acknowledged. ''Even my own father, who worked as a gardener and made $60 a week, has a hard time understanding it.  ''The point is that it's all relative to what is the norm. Thirty thousand a week in this industry is not a high salary. There is no pension plan for actors, no security in the cocktail hours of their lives. You have to build a nest egg while you can.''  Miss Somers's decision to talk publicly about her dispute provides a rare glimpse into the extraordinary sums of money at stake in network television and an insight into the jockeying for position and profit that takes place among the networks, the producers and the actors who parlay exposure on successful shows into superstardom. Between Fear and Desire  The Somers dispute occurs at a time when rapidly rising production costs have created concern throughout Hollywood. Although costs have risen for all aspects of production, the salaries commanded by major stars have become a particularly volatile issue.  Producers of successful shows, in particular, are caught between a desire to draw the line on salaries and the fear that losing a major star could undermine a show that might otherwise earn them millions of dollars.  Sometimes competition for much-sought-after actors prompts networks to offer them enormous salaries even before the shows go on the air. Last season, NBC-TV reportedly paid William Devane well over $50,000 an episode to star in ''From Here to Eternity'' and Joe Don Baker more than $75,000 an episode for ''Eischeid.'' Neither show survived a full season, but those figures may have encouraged even larger demands from established stars on successful shows. J.R.'s Showdown With 'Dallas'  One of the most dramatic star-producer showdowns occurred last summer, when Larry Hagman, who plays J.R. Ewing on ''Dallas'' held out for a major salary increase. Lee Rich, president of Lorimar Productions, which produces ''Dallas'' for CBS-TV, said he hd come within one day of ordering Mr. Hagman written out of the show. If that had taken place, it is possible the show would not be nearly so popular as it is today.  Instead, Mr. Hagman and Lorimar settled - at a figure that has been reported from $50,000 to $100,000 an episode, plus a percentage of the show's eventual profits.  In another recent case, Robert Walden, who plays Joe Rossi on ''Lou Grant,'' also held out for a large increase. In his case, the show's producers, MTM Enterprises, actually did write him out of the show for the first two episodes of the season. Mr. Rossi finally decided to return. He won an increase, but not as much as he had hoped for. If he had not settled, the producers said, they were prepared to replace him. Charges and Countercharges  Miss Somers's situation is similar, but there is a twist. She charges that in retaliation for her demands, the producers of ''Three's Company'' have all but eliminated her role. She said her lawyers were preparing a lawsuit charging ABC and the producers with restraint of trade.  The producers said the reason they reduced Miss Somers's role was to protect themselves after she had twice failed to show up for rehearsals this season. At least one instance, they said, was purely a negotiating ploy.  According to television executives, agents and producers who were interviewed, Miss Somers's $30,000-an-episode salary is not especially high for a major star. They say that Ed Asner of ''Lou Grant,'' Jack Klugman of ''Quincy'' and Henry Winkler of ''Happy Days'' all earn at least twice that amount. They added that the most venerable stars, including Carroll O'Connor of ''Archie Bunker's Place'' and Alan Alda of ''M*A*S*H,'' earn much more, in addition to significant percentages of the shows' profits from syndication. Even on ''Three's Company,'' John Ritter earns a higher salary than Miss Somers.  Mr. Ross denies that any of those situations are parallel: ''Those actors are the total stars of their shows. John Ritter is the focal point of our show, and he has top billing. Suzanne came to this show a total unknown and started out at $2,500 a week. The show made her a star, and we have given her very substantial raises since then. I wonder what she would say if we asked her to share the outside money she's made as a result of her success on ''Three's Company.'' Began a Year Ago 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
