19810502
ALBANY, May 1— The agreement on the state's budget started to unravel today over a demand by Senator Warren M. Anderson, the Republican majority leader. He asked for tax cuts over a five-year period that would cost $2 billion more than the Democrats said they thought they had accepted.  The demand was immediately rejected by the Democrats, who charged that Mr. Anderson, a Binghamton Republican, was trying to renege on the deal they struck with him earlier this week.  Senator Anderson acknowledged in a news conference here that only the previously announced tax cuts, of $75 million this year and $75 million to $150 million next year, were discussed in the Tuesday meeting of the leaders and the Governor that led to their budget agreement.  But the Senator said he ''assumed'' by their silence that they had accepted the third, fourth and fifth years of the tax-cut program he had proposed. Further Delay of Budget  Mr. Anderson said that if the Democrats did not agree to that, he could not accept $300 million of revenue-producing measures that he agreed to in the meeting with the Democrats earlier this week. This would necessitate cuts of a similar amount from the state's spending plan, he said.  The new round of squabbling threatened further delay of the $16.6 billion budget, which is already a month late. The state has been unable in the meantime to pay any of its bills or borrow the money to make its huge school-aid payments, and has been paying its employees in scrip.  The Assembly Speaker, Stanley Fink, said Senator Anderson told him in a meeting today that he needed the additional tax cuts in order to persuade his fellow Republicans to accept the revenue-producing measures.  ''I think he is trying to change what he admits was our agreement in the Governor's office,'' said Mr. Fink, a Brooklyn Democrat. ''And we're not going for it.'' Carey Office Backs Fink  The Governor's office sided with Mr. Fink. ''A five-year program was never discussed,'' said Michael J. DelGiudice, Governor Carey's director of policy management. ''It was $75 million. Period. That's all.''  ''Any idea of a longer-range program,'' he said, ''has got to be considered with the other long-range issues we were talking about, like the Medicaid takeover. There is no way in hell we would have agreed to a five-year tax cut.''  But, to support their case, aides to Senator Anderson produced a transcript of Governor Carey's Tuesday news conference, at which he said he was ''somewhat close to the Senate on the capital gains and investment credit,'' which they said would have a financial impact larger than the agreed-upon $75 million.  And to support the Democratic side, aides to Mr. Carey produced a letter to the Governor from the Senator saying that such issues as Medicaid and long-term tax reductions ''should be discussed and considered in depth and at length in an atmosphere of sincere cooperation rather than in one of crisis and confrontation.'' The Senator said in the letter that he was ''pleased to note that you say 'not all of these needs must be satisfied at once.' ''  Negotiators for the Senate and Assembly were also still working to resolve differences over such issues as how to distribute school aid and about a dozen other minor items in the basic budget bills. 
