19820630
With contracts scheduled to expire at midnight tonight, negotiators for New York City's uniformed services pressed their efforts yesterday to narrow differences with the city and open the way for critical bargaining on money issues.  The talks, at the Vista International Hotel, were focused on health insurance and benefit issues, but union negotiators reported that progress was limited.  ''I don't like the direction things are taking,'' Nicholas Mancuso, president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association, said in the late afternoon. ''We've moved apart on some of the issues we have to deal with at time when we need to get discussion on wages, hazardous-duty pay and longevity pay.''  A spokesman for the city said that subcommittees had been working on various problems and that late in the day Bruce C. McIver, Director of Municipal Labor Relations for the city, Mr. Mancuso and Philip Caruso, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, met to analyze the results of the earlier discussions. No Strike Threats  The uniformed group, with 35,000 members, has been restrained in its comments as the contract termination date has drawn near. They have not threatened any strike action. But Mr. Caruso has emphasized that they have ''contingency plans'' and will be ready for ''any eventuality.'' Leaders of the group have stressed, however, that they are aiming for a settlement tonight, if possible.  The uniformed coalition orginally asked for a pay increase of 15 percent in each year of a proposed two-year pact, plus 10 percent more each year in hazardous-duty pay. The city's only public offer, which was quickly rejected, was for a 3 percent increase in each year of a proposed four-year contract.  The uniformed group subsequently lowered their demand to 14 percent. The base pay of the members of the coalition - police officers, housing police, firefighters and corrections officers - is now $22,769 after three years' service. The Uniformed Fire Officers are also in the coalition.  Meanwhile, as the negotiators for the uniformed group intensified their bargaining efforts, the civilian coalition, representing 200,000 city employees,held a brief bargaining session yesterday, its first in the current round. The contracts covering most of this group, which includes clerical, hospital and some housing personnel - also expire at midnight tonight. The teachers, who are also in the group, have until September before their contract expires.  The leaders of the coalition appeared to be in no hurry and after a 20-minute session the talks were recessed until July 8. Barry Feinstein, president of Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, spoke for the group and said they were seeking ''substantial'' wage increases in each year of a proposed two-year pact. They also want increased welfare contributions by the city, improved health insurance and payment of wages that were deferred during the 1975-76 financial crisis. For all employees of the city, this amounts to about $300 million, city officials said.  ''We know substantial amounts of money are available,'' Mr. Feinstein said. ''But the problem is how much the city will make available to us.''  Illustrations: photo of Victor Gotbaum and Barry Feinstein 
