19810217
FOUR years ago, Beverly Joyce Bimes, a high school English teacher in St. Louis, thought seriously of quitting her job. Headlines everywhere, she recalls, were screaming that the schools were failing. ''I was angry and depressed,'' she says. ''If I'm failing, I ask myself, why go on?'' After a few days, her depression turned into angry determination. ''Let's show them,'' she said to herself and to her colleagues.  Three years later, she was elected Teacher of the Year for the 1980-81 school year. The award, sponsored jointly by the Council of Chief State School Officers, Encyclopaedia Britannica and Good Housekeeping magazine, was based on nominations from all 50 states, with 140,000 competing for the prize.  One reason for Mrs. Bimes's selection was a project she had begun shortly after her decision to ''show them.'' With the cooperation of her colleagues, she declared an annual ''total writing day.'' Everybody, including the teachers, in every class, from English to mathematics, spent the day writing. The focus on writing carried over into the school's regular operation.  The ritual selection of a ''person-of-the-year'' - teacher, mother, father, bus driver or whatever - can degenerate into a public relations gimmick that does more for its sponsors than for the one who is honored. Mrs. Bimes is not letting this happen. She wants to use her year to tell the world that teachers are not failing. She has been saying so in personal appearances and interviews, and she has been demonstrating it in workshops with actual teachers and pupils from coast to coast. ''If I as much as mention 'Teacher of the Year' at home these days,'' she says, ''my teen-age daughters take off like a shot.''  Although Mrs. Bimes's intention to show that teachers are, in fact, not failing, is understandable, it understates the problem. It tells only part of her own experience in the classroom. While she, and other teachers of her calibre, have obviously not been failing, others have, both because of their own inadequacies and even more often because of the inadequacies of the system.  Mrs. Bimes speaks with anger of the fine young teacher who resigned after an unfavorable evaluation by a supervisor. The damaging report had criticized her for not using audio-visual teaching aides. The fact was that at the time the school's only projector was broken.  As a representative of a harassed profession, she replies to what she considers an unfair attack on teachers in a news magazine, with a blanket counterclaim: ''I haven't met many of those incompetent teachers.''  Yet she also cites experiences that persuaded her of the school's need to do better. One day, for example, she asked a school assembly how many of the more than 150 youngsters in the audience had ever enjoyed anything they had written. Only three hands went up, rather diffidently. And none of the three youngsters could be persuaded to read any of their writings to the group.  In another instance, Mrs. Bimes recalls, a student who, though able, seemed to dislike any form of writing finally told her that some years earlier he had read something he had written to the class. ''They laughed at me,'' he said, still smarting from a humiliation an insensitive teacher had allowed to go unchallenged. He never wanted to write again, he said.  ''I'm determined to stop making students afraid of writing,'' Mrs. Bimes says. ''Writing must never appear to be an instrument of fear. As I learned my lessons, I saw to it that I became editor instead of judge.''  ''We often forget that what we have in our minds is not what the kids have in theirs,'' she says in discussing appropriate writing topics.  Writing in the current issue of The School Administrator, the monthly publication of the American Association of School Administrators, she offers these basic prescriptions for successful teaching:  - Teachers must accept the proposition that each student has a contribution to make. She cites the example of a blind girl in one of her classes who, instead of becoming an albatross, as Mrs. Bimes admits she had feared at first, performed brilliantly and, in addition, inspired the class into becoming a more supportive community.  - Teachers must believe that the student is at the heart of the learning process. To persuade youngsters that this is so, Mrs. Bimes insists, the first meetings each year should be used for joint planning with the students. Learning then ''becomes discovery instead of regurgitation.''  - Teachers should continuously communicate that they care and do everything possible to encourage two-way communication. Mrs. Bimes establishes the mood at the beginning of each term with an open letter to the students, perhaps confiding, for example, that she ''had a difficult time in getting to sleep last night'' because she worried about facing a new class. Throughout the year, she encourages students to send her ''telegrams'' of 25 words or less when something on their minds calls for instant attention. Every other week, the class meets to discuss its progress. Occasionally, a day is set aside ''when we write sincere compliments to each other. Leaving the class with 34 positive comments improves anyone's self-concept.''  Mrs. Bimes says: ''It is the exceptional person - the talented teacher -who realizes that developing human potential is not just important; it is all there is.'' She is angry when society, as she puts it, devalues education. Given the high standards she sets for herself, such anger is understandable; but it is the gap between those standards and what really takes place in many classrooms that disenchants society, as it occasionally does Mrs. Bimes herself.  Still, as Teacher of the Year, Beverly Bimes is doing much to lift that contest above the public relations emphasis that often dominates such competitions. 
