19811002
PARIS, Oct. 1— After a 10-year legal battle, Les Must de Cartier, one of France's best-known makers of luxury goods, has persuaded a Mexican businessman to halt a multimillion-dollar operation counterfeiting Cartier products and has appointed him to sell the genuine articles.  The agreement between Cartier and Fernando Pelletier, who owned 14 shops in Mexico City, Acapulco and elsewhere that were billed as ''Cartier'' shops, marked a rare victory by a trademark holder in the struggle to stem a flood of pirated products, originating mainly in Latin America and the Far East. Les Must de Cartier is the wholesaling and franchising arm of Cartier World, which is the parent company of Cartier of New York.  Problems Began in 1970  Cartier's Mexican problems began in 1970 when the Paris concern found that copies of its watches and luggage were being sold in boutiques under the Cartier name and trademark.  Mr. Pelletier had used a provision of Mexican law to register the Cartier name. Cartier had held Mexican trademark rights, but in 1968 failed to renew them, thus allowing Mr. Pelletier's company to start its own line of products labeled ''Cartier,'' including watches, jewelry, lighters, leather goods and pens, and sell them at discounts of 30 percent to 50 percent below the prices of Les Must des Cartier.  The French company, one of several that have found its trademarks registered by others in Mexico, began the first of a series of 24 lawsuits to halt what it called a ''counterfeiting operation.'' Boutiques in Luxury Hotels  Meanwhile, Mr. Pelletier opened more boutiques in luxury hotels, many frequented by American tourists delighted to find what they assumed to be original Cartier watches well below prices in the United States. But Cartier said it had received hundreds of complaints from customers angry that their watches, guaranteed for life, had broken after a few days.  Alain Dominique Perrin, managing director of Les Must, estimated the sales of the Mexi can Cartier goods at $8 million. Cartier won its lawsuits, which cost $3 mil lion in fees, but found that the terms were not being carried out. So after failing to persuade Mr. Pelletier to close, Cartier bega n its own Mexican business in September 1980, opening a shop al most alongside Mr. Pelletier's in Mexico City. This eventually p roved to be the move that brought about the settlement. First Offer in April  Mr. Perrin said he received Mr. Pelletier's first offer to negotiate in April, and the two signed contracts transferring the Cartier trademarks on Sept. 8. Under the ag reements, Mr. Pelletier will hand ove r all his merchandise for destruction and stop using theCartier name for his shops. For the transfer of the trademarks, he will receive $30,000; he had asked for $4.5 million.  In return, he will hold the Cartier concession for Mexico, selling the French company's goods in outlets carrying his own name. Cartier is not seeking damages. ''After all, business is business,'' Mr. Perrin said. ''Mr. Pelletier has unmatchable experience for the job.''  Mr. Perrin said his next targets would be the heavy flow of false Cartier goods entering France from Morocco and a company that had started making ''Cartier'' jeans in Brazil. 
