19820503
READING ALOUD  One of the first steps in putting flesh onto a playwright's script comes in the reading, the session in which the actors, lines yet unmemorized although perhaps scanned and studied, run it through. The reading can also be in several stages of development, usually not open to the public toward whom the final product is directed.  However, the public can gain admission to one of these backstage events at 8 tonight, when the Actors' Enclave presents a staged reading at the Carter Theater, 250 West 43d Street. Among the more attractive reasons for attending is the presence of Beatrice Straight and Lee Richardson in the cast. Miss Straight, known on stage and screen, won an Oscar in 1977 for her supporting role in ''Network,'' and Mr. Richardson is now in the Roundabout Theater's production of ''The Browning Version.''  The play they will be reading, written a few years ago but never produced, is ''A Winter Visitor'' by Jan Hartman. The reading will consist of more than merely reading. Under the direction of June Prager, the actors in this three-character story of an autumn romance will have some staged mobility as they read from their scripts.  Actors Enclave, with Colleen Jenkins as artistic director, is a repertory company designed to provide a base where performers can work on projects dear to their hearts even though they may leave from time to time for jobs at which they earn income.  Admission tonight is a suggested donation of $2. ITALIAN WEEK  This is Italian Heritage and Culture Week in New York, and it is being observed in film and talk at New York University. The movies, shown each evening at 8, are historical films dealing with the Risorgimento, the years between 1860 and 1865 when Garibaldi unified the nation. The first, made in 1933 during the Fascist regime, is ''1860,'' a rarely seen work directed by Mario Blasetti that is the story of Garibaldi's struggle. It will be shown in Tisch Hall's Schimmel Auditorium, 40 West Fourth Street.  Tomorrow's film has not been announced. On Wednesday, Roberto Rossellini's 1961 costume drama, ''Vanina Vanina,'' also in Schimmel. Thursday, Toviani's 1974 ''Allonsenfan,'' starring Marcello Mastroianni, in Vanderbilt Hall, 40 Washington Square South. Friday, in Schimmel, Luchino Visconti's 1963 ''The Leopard,'' with Burt Lancaster and Claudia Cardinale.  The lectures, through Friday, start at 6 P.M. today in Schimmel, with a session on Italian immigration and languages by Robert Di Pietro, of the University of Delaware; Lydia F. Tomasi, director of the Center for Migration Studies, and Fiorenza Wineapple, of N.Y.U.'s Italian Studies. Tomorrow at 8, in the main building's Sommerville Theater, 100 Washington Square East, Martin Chusid, music professor, discusses ''Verdi's Operas in His Own Day.'' On Wednesdays, in Schimmel, Gert Schiff, professor of fine arts, speaks about ''Garibaldi and His Painters.''  Through the week, on view from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M., is an exhibition of Verdi memorabilia in the Schimmel lobby. Admission to all the events is free. Information: 598-7060. GREAT LEAP FORWARD  Last October, Choo San Goh's ballet ''Configurations'' was given its premiere in Minneapolis with Mikhail Baryshnikov on American Ballet Theater's tour. Tonight at 8, the ballet will be seen for the first time in New York in the company's presentation at the Metropolitan Opera House in Lincoln Center (362-6000), where the dancers will perform through June 12.  Marianna Tcherkassky will be tonight's star, with Kevin McKenzie as her partner. Choo San Goh choreographed the piece under the inspiration of Samuel Barber's Concerto for Piano and Orchestra (Op. 38).  Tomorrow at 8, Cynthia Gregory dances for the first time in Antony Tudor's ''Pillar of Fire,'' first danced by Nora Kaye in 1942. Admission: $6 to $40.  For Sports Today, see page C5. Richard F. Shepard 
