19850811
 Shifting Strategies -- A Special Report: Surge in Restructuring Is Profoundly Altering Much of U.S. Industry --- More Upheavals Are Likely; Investors Often Benefit, But Do Firms Also Gain? --- One Aim Is to Fix Mistakes --- A Wall Street Journal News Roundup   The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 12, 1985  -- Just within the past month, Monsanto Co. got into the prescription-drug business by agreeing to purchase G.D. Searle & Co. for $2.7 billion; Levi Strauss & Co. decided to go private in a $1.45 billion transaction; Colgate-Palmolive Co. said it will buy back up to 18% of its stock and sell businesses accounting for 22% of its 1984 operating profit; and Sir James Goldsmith gained majority control of Crown Zellerbach Corp. for around $570 million and was named chairman. One of his first acts was to change the company's restructuring proposal by putting its timber assets in a corporation, rather than a partnership, as Crown management had intended.  The perspective is different inside some companies restructured under threat of a takeover. Phillips Petroleum Co., for instance, added $4.5 billion in debt to finance a restructuring plan that ended a takeover raid led by T. Boone Pickens. "As for saying it did the company good, I have a little bit of a hard time saying that," says Phillips's chairman, C.J. "Pete" Silas. Phillips is still independent, but it clearly is weaker and more vulnerable to further oil-price declines and higher interest rates.  The recapitalization ended a four-month takeover battle that Phillips waged against Mr. Pickens and Carl Icahn, who contended that the sleepy oil giant wasn't squeezing sufficient value for its shareholders out of its assets. Phillips swapped debt securities valued at $62 a share for about half of its common stock, split its stock 3 for 1, increased the annual dividend to $3 a share from $2.40 and paid a one-time dividend of new preferred stock valued at $4.09 per pre-split common share. The plan raised Phillips's debt load to a huge $7.3 billion and its debt-equity ratio to 80% from 30%.   
