20070504
 PURSUITS; Books: Tales From Inside the Beeb; Bernie Goldberg, British-style: A former BBC reporter questions the political predilections of a media enterprise that is unrivaled in its global reach   By Steyn, Mark, The Wall Street Journal,  May 5, 2007  When a chap writes a book called "Can We Trust the BBC?" I think it's a safe assumption that the answer is unlikely to be "yes." So I trust you won't regard it as a plot spoiler if I reveal that, at the end of his brisk tome, [Robin Aitken] (a Beeb journalist for 25 years) reveals that, no, you cannot trust the BBC, at least not if you're of a broadly conservative disposition. On the European Union, on the Iraq war, on Northern Ireland, on Islam, on America, the BBC trends not merely well to the left of the Conservative Party but well to the left of Tony Blair's New Labour. Away from the news, its "creative" side is expressed mainly through the usual dreary provocations, such as "Weddings and Beheadings," its laugh-a-minute drama about an Islamist snuff-video cameraman, scripted by Hanif Kureishi, Britain's Oldest Most Promising Young Writer and a man who'll never run out of Beeb commissions. The BBC's privileged position in British life makes its bias of a slightly different order from any U.S. network's.  Unlike the shrunken unmanned Royal Navy, the sun never sets on the BBC empire. As Mr. Aitken points out, 82% of people listen to it every week -- and that's just in Afghanistan. The BBC is the world's most popular Internet news site and the third most popular site in the U.S. Last year, I was having a drink with Australia's great foreign minister, Alexander Downer, and, as one does, we got into an argument about Burkina Faso. I demanded to know whether the minister could, in fact, name the country's present head of government. He confessed that, alas, he hadn't been paying as close attention to the affairs of Burkina Faso as he might, pulled out his BlackBerry, went straight to the BBC and read out their comprehensive and authoritative page on the nation. ("Burkina Faso is a poor country by West African standards" -- which is a mind-boggling concept.)  When one TV host made some observations about the Arab world's penchant for suicide bombing, amputations, repression of women and a generally celebratory attitude to 9/11 -- none of which is factually in dispute -- he was yanked off the air immediately and permanently. When, however, the BBC's principal current-affairs morning man called the Catholic Church's attitude to AIDS "outrageous" and "wicked," his words apparently complied with BBC standards of "impartiality." When their arts pundit offered the pensee that "Brooklyn born" Jewish settlers on the West Bank "should be shot dead" because "they are Nazis" and "I feel nothing but hatred for them," he too remained at his post, though the BBC did remark on its Web site that "his polemical, knockabout style has ruffled feathers in the U.S., where the Jewish question is notoriously sensitive." ("The Jewish question"?)   
