20070403
 No Headline Available   By es of a Retailer:, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 4, 2007  The Sotheby's trial that began in November 2001 was one of the more elaborate legal he-said-she-said contests in corporate history. Mr. [A. Alfred Taubman] writes that when the scandal first broke -- and before he knew that Ms. [Diana "Dede" Brooks] would be his chief accuser -- he had met with her and a Sotheby's lawyer to discuss the government probe and at one point joked: "I don't think I'd look good in stripes!" The "lighthearted aside," he says, was "intended to dismiss the unthinkable outcome of my going to jail." In her testimony later, Ms. Brooks recalled the episode as one where Mr. Taubman had said to her that she could end up being the one wearing stripes -- a threat that she might go to prison. Whom do you believe?  In Mr. Taubman's hostile portrait of Ms. Brooks, she is so accomplished at undercutting her rivals that she should be writing her own book of corporate backstabbing tips. He tells of a time when he grew angry with Michael Ainslie, Sotheby's president before Ms. Brooks, who seemed to be perfecting his tennis game on company time. In retrospect, Mr. Taubman now realizes, he became aware that the executive was out of the office only because Ms. Brooks "had put in an elaborate office intelligence network to alert her to every Ainslie absence." The minute Mr. Ainslie left the premises, "Dede would call me with a matter requiring immediate attention." Eventually, she won Mr. Ainslie's job.  One gets the impression that, like the actor who says "I'm not a doctor, I play one on TV," Mr. Taubman played the role of gentleman- auctioneer at Sotheby's, bumbling along until his lack of involvement in the daily doings of his business landed him in prison. While he is able to describe the retailing trade in great detail in "Threshold Resistance," his tales of Sotheby's are, revealingly, mostly about the toasts he gives and hunting parties he goes to. His mall holdings "were the heart of my business and my identity," he writes, but implicit throughout the book, though he won't say it outright, is the idea that he was only a figurehead at his own firm. Tally ho! The book is, finally, a cautionary tale for those who pick a company for the social access it might give them.   
