19820207
ALBANY, Feb. 5— Four state agencies have contracts totaling $190,000 a year with an outside public-relations concern, even though each has a separate public-information office.  The same concern is now negotiating an additional $30,000 contract with a fifth state agency. The contracts are held by Howard Rubenstein, a New York City public-relations specialist who has close ties to a variety of New York political leaders.  Mr. Rubenstein's contracts are with the State Commerce Department, totaling $80,000; the Urban Development Corporation and the Medical Care Facilities Finance Agency, each for $40,000, and the Housing Finance Agency, for $2,500 a month.  In addition, the State of New York Mortgage Agency is negotiating a $2,500-a-month contract with Mr. Rubenstein. There is nothing illegal about Mr. Rubenstein's contracts, although it is unusual for agencies with public-information departments to hire outsiders for work other than such special projects as the ''I Love New York'' campaign. An Adviser to Beame  Mr. Rubenstein said that he understood his hiring might raise questions at a time of ''budget crisis'' and that he had been ''very cautious not to overcharge.''  The public-relations specialist came to prominence as an adviser to Mayor Abraham D. Beame. Other past or present clients include former Assembly Speaker Stanley Steingut and Borough President Stanley Simon of the Bronx, as well as American Invsco, the real-estate conglomerate partly owned by Evangeline Gouletas-Carey, Governor Carey's wife.  Recently, Mr. Rubenstein helped arrange a news conference at which Invsco announced it was suing the state's Attorney General, Robert Abrams, charging Mr. Abrams had improperly thwarted an effort to convert an apartment building into cooperatives.  ''I have done one thing for them,'' Mr. Rubenstein said, referring to Invsco, ''for which I was paid well.'' Each of the four state agencies currently retaining Mr. Rubenstein justified the additional expenditures by pointing to his experience and broad contacts.  ''I did not receive the accounts on the basis of friendship or politics,'' said Mr. Rubenstein. ''The one thing I pride myself on is the ethics of my company.'' A Routine Announcement  Mr. Rubenstein's involvement with state government was spotlighted recently when reporters received calls from his office announcing a speech by the state's Commerce Commissioner, George G. Dempster, before the board of governors of the Commodities Exchange in New York City. Such a task is normally handled by public-information officers employed by the state agencies.  It turned out that Mr. Rubenstein had been retained by both the Commodities Exchange and the Commerce Department. One contract with the state agency, for $50,000, is for his work in the ''Made in New York'' promotional campaign. The other - for a ''ceiling'' of $30,000, the agency says - covers general public-relations work.  The Commerce Department frequently hires outside assistance for a variety of advertising and promotional campaigns, notably the extensive ''I Love New York' ' advertising campaign, which is budgetedfor $6.5 mill ion. The account for creative work, production and placement of advertisements for that promotion is held by the firm ofWells, Rich & Green.  But Mr. Rubenstein's contracts are for more general publicrelations work. 'Experience and Judgment'  ''What Howard brings is knowledge and judgment,'' said Robert Rafsky, the Urban Development Corporation's public-information director, when asked about Mr. Rubenstein's $40,000 contract with that agency. ''I can work long hours - and I do - and I can provide the sweat and I can make a lot of calls and do a lot of thinking, but I can't bring all that experience and judgment.''  He said his agency's contracts with Mr. Rubenstein went back to March 1979. To date, Mr. Rubenstein has been paid $150,922.69 by the corporation or its subsidiaries, including just over $30,000 from the Harlem Urban Developmen t Corporation, which i s now administratively separate from U.D.C.  Mr. Rafsky said Mr. Rubenstein's work for the U.D.C. included ''sticking together constituencies'' and allowing the agency to ''receive a straight shot in terms of news reporting.''  He said that the contract with Mr. Rubenstein had not been let on competitive bidding, but added that ''in certain fields, you don't usually have a competitive bidding situation'' for consulting contracts. Salaries in the agency's public information office, Mr. Rafsky noted, come to $121,500 a year.  Among the companies that have retained Mr. Rubenstein is Olympia & York Equity Corporation, which holds the contract for developing the commercial center of Battery Park City. Helped in 'Luncheon Seminars'  However, both Mr. Rafsky and Mr. Rubenstein said Mr. Rubenstein started working for Olympia & York only after the agreement on the Battery Park development was reached.  Robert J. Steves, who is executive director of the Medical Care Facilities Finance Agency, the Housing Finance Agency and the State of New York Mortgage Agency, said Mr. Rubenstein's responsibilities included ''assisting us in a series of luncheon seminars we're presenting throughout the state'' to help make known ''the tools we have to offer the hospital industry and the housing industry.'' He said Mr. Rubenstein also helped put together brochures.  ''For the housing, he has essentially helped our P.R. person with ground-breakings,'' Mr. Steves said. 
