19810913
THE William Benton Museum has opened its new season with two exhibitions of considerable interest (University of Connecticut, Storrs, through Oct. 4). The larger of the displays, more than 60 canvases and numerous drawings, is by Anthony Terenzio, who taught at the university from 1955 to 1979; the other consists of 71 black and white portraits - of artists, mainly - taken by the photographer Renate Ponsold.  Mr. Terenzio arrived in this country from Italy at the age of 12 and did most of his training at the Pratt Institute, from which he was graduated in 1949. Despite a teaching schedule that began almost immediately, the artist had several solos in New York City in the 50's and participated in group shows there and in New England. But by the mid-1960's, he had withdrawn altogether from the gallery scene. Many pictures in this retrospective have, therefore, not been seen before, and, in this respect, Mr. Terenzio reflects a tendency that has recently become apparent in the New York enclave.  In the last year alone more than one artist of substance has surfaced after a lengthy period o f invisibility, and it seems likely that other '' dropouts'' will soon be heard from. The seclusion has been voluntar y in most cases, including Mr. Terenzio's - a matter of not wanting ( or needing) to deal with the marketplace as it had become during the great post-war art boom.  A body of work produced in relative isolation can be a salutary though taxing experience for its spectators. Mr. Terenzio, though for all practical purposes a ''new'' ar tist, comes not as a young hotproperty to be speculated on but as a mature, complete sensibility with his potential realized. Many of the aest hetic fluctuations of the last three decades can be read in his pai ntings, much as climaticvariations can be deduced from tree rings. An d, by reason of his acknowledged influences - Bonnard and Matisse - the artist sometimes seems to be shadowing his more illustrious co ntemporaries, such as Richard Diebenkorn.  But also operating are other, more personal forces that give the art its remote character, and the strongest of them is an ambivalence about representation versus abstraction - a point made in the catalogue introduction written by Peter Devine. Demonstrably, several Abstract Expressionists of Mr. Terenzio's generation experienced this ambivalence - conflict, perhaps, is the better word - and signs of it are visible even in the early work of such pioneers as Arshile Gorky. (Perhaps someone will organize a show around this theme one of these days.)  Mr. Terenzio's richly colored canvases concern figures and still lifes and reveal an awareness of various European masters, Picasso, Braque and Nicolas de Stael among them. The effect of Bonnard first becomes apparent around the mid-1950's, in pictures such as ''Blue Interior,'' where the color, while still intense, is dryer and much more expressive of light than before. The ambivalence does not appear until later in the 50's, when the artist became involved in all-over imagery which, though it appears non-objective closeup, is often quite eerily descriptive viewed from a distance. ''The Berkshire Hills'' of 1958, for instance, changes from a mass of tightly packed small forms in low-keyed greens, grays and earth colors to a landscape of quite specific gray rocks interspersed with scrubby vegetation. In this phase (which lasted until well into the 1960's), there is a recurring theme of small, corpuscular shapes hanging in clusters that have the air of early-20th-century Vienna. It's as if some Secessionist were foreseeing Abstract Expressionism.  Varying the shapes of his components, Mr. Terenzio continued to fill his canvases with masses that refer to landscapes until the mid-1970's, when, after a ''spiritual crisis,'' he turned once again to the interiors that had first preoccupied him. Working with thin dry pigment, the artist then entered the phase that dominates the exhibition.  Ambiguity pervades these paintings also, but now it bespeaks conflict resolved or at least accepted. Essentially, the subject is a room of Bonnard-like scale and proportions in which the forms have been flattened into tile-like designs of trapezoids, rhomboids and triangles, each defined by an outline and filled with rapid streaks of paint. Except for ''Blue Sunday - Interior,'' where cobalt blue and ultramarine alternate with grays and cool creamy hues, the colors are quite muted -grays, earth tones and tinted whites.  Unquestionably the artist's best work to date, the late canvases are both beautiful and dour. If they lack anything, it is that sleekness that comes with fame or even just routine critical attention - the very props Mr. Terenzio rejected so early in his career. This absence of course raises uncomfortable and unanswerable questions about how exactly art has been estimated since it became an end in itself, and to what degree an artist's self-knowledge depends on the reflections of himself he sees in the eyes and words of others. It is to be hoped, nevertheless, that now that Mr. Terenzio has re-entered the system, he will remain in its dubious embrace. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
