19810819
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18— The operators of the nation's nuclear power plants have become so swamped by safety directives from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission that a new ''potential safety problem of unknown dimensions'' has arisen, according to a commission staff report published today.  The report was based on a survey of managers and reactor operators at 12 utilities, including the Consolidated Edison Company and the Power Authority of the State of New York. It uncovered a host of complaints. For example, the commission's requests were said to be often uncoordinated, poorly directed and subject to frequent change and were blamed, over all, for a reduction in work efficiency.  Much of the frustration appeared to be related to requirements adopted in response to the accident at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant in March 1979. Regulation Seen as a Problem  Although the commission itself has not acted on the findings, Nunzio J. Palladino, its new chairman, indicated in an interview that he regarded counterproductive regulation as a serious problem.  When asked about the priority items on his agenda, he mentioned regulation first, saying, ''We issue a lot of orders, a lot of bulletins on generic issues -issues applying to more than one reactor - and we've had a lot of feedback from the industry that we seem to be out of control.''  Mr. Palladino said he had already asked the staff to develop remedies and that he hoped these could be completed in the next few weeks.  He said that the commission wanted to set up a procedure whereby directives ''have been well considered'' when they are sent out. 'A Loss of Confidence'  The report, dated July 1, of the commission's office of inspection and enforcement found that while few requirements were regarded by operators as unreasonable or unsafe, they were believed to have had harmful or wasteful cumulative effects and contributed to ''a loss of confidence'' in the operators' plants.  One complaint was that plant security has become so tight that, in several instances, a safety problem has been caused by the restriction of access to vital plant areas and equipment.  ''The installation of many fire doors, the large number of surveillance activities and the masonry wall modifications have substantially increased the difficulty in proceeding about the plant,'' the survey said in summarizing the specific comments of operators. ''This detracts from safe operations because it takes three times as long to tour the plant as it did a few years ago.''  Another complaint was that regulations changed so often that plant managers tended to delay complying with a new one in hopes of avoiding unnecessary work and expense. Volume of Rules Assailed  Operators also said that the ''sheer number'' and ''helterskelter'' issuance of regulations ''makes it difficult for any licensee to integrate related changes, to reduce costs and to set reasonable schedules.'' Their engineering staffs, they stated, should be employed on ''high safety impact issues rather than tight schedule responses to N.R.C. actions.''  Utilities also said that the commission seemed to have little notion of the financial and administrative strains imposed by the often complex requirements and were often unable to provide definitive interpretations of the rules.  A standard observation, the study said, was that the impact of many changes on other safety-related efforts has not been adequately evaluated. 
