20020811
 World Watch   By Compiled by Lily H. Li, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 12, 2002  The U.S. Peace Corps is scaling back its operations in Russia after authorities denied visas to almost half its volunteers. The organization said it was "very disappointed" that 30 of 64 volunteers on two-year assignments weren't allowed back into the nation for their second year of service. Jeff Hay, the Peace Corps' Russian director, said articles have recently appeared in the regional press accusing volunteers of being spies and ridiculing the group as a scheme for bringing down U.S. unemployment figures. Mr. Hay said some regions recently have pulled out of the program. Vladimir Godina, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, declined to comment on the issue, saying, "The authorities are not required to provide any explanation for why a visa has been denied."  Japan's former foreign minister, Makiko Tanaka, submitted her resignation from Parliament in a surprise move two weeks after she gave testimony on allegations of misuse of public money. Ms. Tanaka submitted her resignation Friday to the speaker of the lower house, who must approve it, a parliamentary official said. Calls to her office weren't answered. Ms. Tanaka has been plagued by allegations that she misappropriated an undisclosed amount of public funds to pay staff who weren't on her official payroll. Last month she denied wrongdoing, but critics said her testimony didn't clear doubts regarding the situation. Ms. Tanaka, who hasn't been charged, said her staff's salaries were paid in part by a private company her family owns in order to give the secretaries full social-insurance benefits.  Brazil's state oil giant said Friday it had discovered a "gigantic" petroleum field in the Campos Basin off the coast of the state of Espirito Santo. Petroleos Brasileiros said the find had an estimated 600 million barrels of oil reserves. Petrobras, Latin America's third-largest petroleum producer, has about 10.6 billion in reserves. Initial tests showed the well had production of 3,000 barrels of oil a day but indicated daily output could rise to 20,000 barrels. Separately, Petrobras disclosed an expected drop in profit as a weak real took its toll on its heavy dollar-linked debt load. Second-quarter net profit slumped 35% to 2.03 billion reals ($695 million) from 3.14 billion reals a year earlier. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization rose to 5.56 billion reals from 4.73 billion reals.   
