19820302
Judge Aileen H. Schwartz of Family Court in Manhattan began the day with polite requests that gradually became firmer. By day's end, she was fuming. No one, it seemed, could verify the alibi of a 16-yearold charged with destroying a car who had missed a court appearance a month earlier. The youth said in his morning appearance that he had been attending a school for troubled children on the day of the previous hearing. But his lawyer knew nothing about it. The Probation Department knew nothing about it. And his mother could not be found. As the long court day drew to a close, Judge Schwartz demanded the answers by the next morning. And ''to be certain he just doesn't disappear,'' she ordered the youth held overnight.  Late the next afternoon, she got her answer: the school had never heard of him. The alibi was phony. But in the meantime, she was told, the youth had walked away from the courthouse, leaving as easily as he had arrived. In court parlance, he had ''absconded.''  So it goes in the five Family Courts in New York City, where lies and truth, fears and frustrations, family traumas and the law are blended in a crucible of pleas and writs and judgments that society calls justice. Like many of the people who come before it, Family Court in New York is troubled. It is underfinanced, understaffed, inundated with paper work, snared in the social-work bureaucracy and overwhelmed by its caseload and the magnitude of the human problems with which it must contend.  Sheer numbers are part of the story. The court has only 28 judges, its authorized total of 39 having been cut by retirements, resignations and reassignments. (The city has said it will fill the vacancies soon.) The days are hectic. If a judge is sick or absent, a colleague may keep cases moving through two or three courtrooms. A judge often has 10 to 20 hearings scheduled each day. In the section of the court known as Intake A on a typical day, a judge may process 100 cases in their preliminary stages.  The court's support staff of secretaries, clerks and court officers has been cut 43 percent, from 719 to 412, since the fiscal crisis of 1975. Many members are demoralized and want to transfer to other courts. In addition, many lawyers who practice before the court are regarded as among the least competent of their profession.  To this juridicial potpourri comes an avalanche of 100,000 new cases a year, a catalogue of family anguish ranging from custody and support battles to highly emotional charges involving neglected and abused children, paternity fights and juvenile delinquency.  Under court rules, all proceedings are closed to the public and the participants may not be identified by name. But to a reporter who spent several weeks in the Family Courts of Manhattan, Brooklyn and the Bronx, the anonymity of the participants and the jargon of ''intakes'' and ''caseloads'' did not mask the underlying dramas, the daily tableaux on the gray frontier of law and human frailty.  What would happen to the boy accused of terrorizing other children? Should a frightened repeat offender be placed in custody? Or turned loose? Or shuttled to a social agency?  And in every courtroom, there were striking impressions: of battered wives with swollen eyes and broken teeth, of hard-eyed young toughs full of anger and alibis, and of small, frightened boys charged with crimes, their masks of bravado barely shaken by the talk of foster homes and lockups. 'Travesty of Justice'  A 15-year-old youth, accompanied by his mother, appeared before Judge Cesar H. Quinones in Brooklyn, charged with pulling a .25-caliber pistol on a police officer. The probation officer told the judge that the boy qualified for a Legal Aid lawyer, so one was immediately assigned.  And before the lawyer and the mother had even spoken, the lawyer gave the judge her fervent assurance that the mother would assume control of the boy if Judge Quinones allowed him to go free pending trial.  An assistant district attorney leaped up. ''How can she come in here and say to this court that she's going to keep him out of trouble?'' the prosecutor said. ''This is his seventh arrest. It will be a travesty of justice if you parole her little boy.'' Sarcasm dripped from the last three words.  That put Judge Quinones on the spot. Last summer a Federal judge said it was unconstitutional to detain a juvenile before trial simply because the Family Court judge believed ''there is a serious risk'' that he might commit another criminal act. A child can only be held if ''there is a substantial probability that he will not appear in court'' for the next scheduled hearing, the Federal judge said.  The Federal judge ruled in favor of the Legal Aid Society, whose lawyers challenge the judges daily to show that there is ''a substantial probability'' that their clients will not return.  Judge Quinones carefully laid out his reasons, including the seriousness of the charges and the fact that this was a ''good case'' with a witness willing to testify, and ordered the boy held. The boy ''was trying to get away from authority in the most violent means possible - by shooting,'' the judge said. 1 2 3 NEXT PAGE > 
