19820415
WASHINGTON, April 14— Fifteen years ago the nation was engaged in a debate over how poor people should be helped, whether they should be given cash or such noncash benefits as food, medical care and housing, in addition to their relatively meager welfare payments.  The ''give-them-cash'' approach, which would have involved a negative income tax or other device, lost out. There was a massive increase in noncash benefits, from $2.2 billion in 1965 to $27.8 billion in 1980, even when the effect of inflation was excluded.  But the benefits were handed out under so many different complicated programs that neither the Government nor anyone else was able to determine, as they might have under a simple cash distribution effort, what impact they had made on poverty.  In 1980 Congress ordered the Census Bureau to examine all the benefits and to find, at the least, a better means of defining the poverty level than the simple cash-income method in use since 1964.  Choice of 3 Sets of Guidelines  The bureau's report, released today, offers three alternative ways to define poverty and thus to count the number of poor people. It suggests that the number of people below the poverty line could be reduced by as much as 42 percent if the most liberal method of counting noncash benefits was adopted. That would mean that enormous progress had been made in recent years in the nation's ''War on Poverty,'' to use the 1965 definition.  The report, however, is not likely to settle the argument about the extent of poverty, even if the Government decides to adopt one of the methods recommended. Rather, the document is considered politically explosive, so much so that Bruce Chapman, director of the Census Bureau, steadfastly refused to put any interpretation on how it should be used.  The Reagan Administration could use the report to justify its cuts in social programs, on the ground that the extent of poverty had been overstated and less Government assistance was needed to provide for the truly needy.  On the other hand, it could be used by Democrats, who are much on the defensive about their record of social spending, to show that their enactment of Federal aid on a huge scale before Mr. Reagan's election was not the failure that the President and his allies proclaimed it to be. National Debate Is Expected  The report is expected to be the subject of Congressional hearings and the focal point of debate on the real needs of Americans on the lower end of the economic ladder.  The sheer size of noncash benefits, making up two out of every three dollars of Government assistance, shows that poverty obviously decreased over the last two decades, before the deep budget cuts of last year.  Yet there are several reasons why the report is not likely to stem the controversy. One is that poverty in the United States is frequently viewed in relative terms, and there is nothing in the report to show how wealth in this country has been redistributed since such programs as food stamps and Medicaid reached large proportions.  The bureau says it is working to answer such questions as whether Government benefits to the rich have outdistanced benefits to the poor or whether the rich have become richer and the poor poorer, as some contend. But those findings are many months or years away, the bureau says. Each Presents a Problem  Any method used to figure noncash benefits as an indicator of poverty is subject to dispute. ''There is a problem with any one of these methods,'' said Mr. Chapman, referring to the alternatives outlined in the report.  For example, food stamps would be of little help to a family whose most dire need is housing, and a family that required $10,000 in medical assistance in one year would live no better in terms of food, clothing and shelter after having received it.  Nor does the report have anything to say about how families classified as poor might benefit from ''hidden income,'' the trade and barter that never gets into the statistics. That is another subject the bureau is examining. Questions About Effects  The decision of the nation to go for a complicated system of noncash benefits in lieu of the ''give them cash'' method appparently insured ambiguity about the effects of such aid.  Mr. Chapman, asked how long it would be before a simple indicator of what constitutes poverty could be devised, said: ''It has to get more complicated before it gets more simple. We have to get a lot more data.''  In the meantime, the opposing political camps can put their own interpretation on what the figures mean. 
