19820528
THE biggest race Bill Mears ever won was ''some little old modified stock car race'' worth only $1,000, unless you want to count the race last Memorial Day to put out the fire that was enveloping his son.  Bill Mears, who is 52 years old, was the major reason his son Rick, 30, escaped permanent injury when spilled fuel caught fire and spread over his body.  The Indianapolis Motor Speedway has apparently made many improvements in fire-fighting techniques for Sunday's 500-mile race, in which Rick Mears will have the pole position in his Penske PC-10, which resembles a missile as much as an automobile. ''It was just one of those things,'' Bill Mears says, toning down some of the anger his family felt toward race officials last year.  Bill Mears was about eight feet from the accident, monitoring his son, who won the 500 in 1979 and was the favorite last year. The father is well qualified to be around the pits, having driven ''a bunch of jalopies at fairgrounds back in Wichita.'' He gave up the stock car circuit a few years after moving to Bakersfield in 1955 and took up a backhoe business in the California oil fields, employing his father and two sons. Bill Mears taught his two sons, Roger and Rick, how to drive at high speed, and he built their early cars for them.  ''After a while, they got in over my head,'' Mears says. ''There was no way I could afford to stay in the business, but I would drive for them once in a while.  ''Two years ago, when Roger broke both his arms in a race, I drove Mike Moore's car for 12 hours in the Baha 1,000 in Mexico, and we got second.  ''The first time Rick won the Firecracker 250 in Barstow, Calif., I drove a little for him. Roger called up from the Pikes Peak race and said he won, and I said, 'We won, too.' ''  Even though the Penske team, for which Rick drives, performs with space-age precision, there is always room for Bill Mears. ''Sometimes Roger Penske gives me something to do,'' Bill Mears says, ''like holding the fire extinguisher or the hand-held electric starter. I usually stand right behind the pits, because there are rules about how many people can actually be in the pits.''  The Indy 500 is not always a perfect operation. Twelve years ago, the officials let an auto salesman drive the pace car as a prize for hustling the sponsor's cars, but he couldn't negotiate the turnoff at 60 miles an hour, and he slammed into the photographers' bleachers, causing grievous injuries.  Last year, it was the fire brigade that broke down when Rick Mears pulled in after 58 laps. After the tank was full, the nozzle did not snap shut, and about five gallons spilled over Mears, who was seated in the car. Some people have speculated that somebody in the pits had negated the fail-safe shutoff on the nozzle to save a few seconds, but Rick Mears says: ''We didn't touch it. We have no idea why it happened.''  The heat from the engine ignited the fuel, sending nearly invisible flames licking at Mears's helmet, face mask and fireproof suit. ''I jumped over the pit wall and started looking for a fireman,'' Rick Mears said the other day. ''But I just didn't see one.'' In fairness, it should be noted that one speedway patrolman did try to pull off Mears's helmet and as a result was burned on his right side. And several crew members were also burned while helping. In addition, speedway personnel were there to save Danny Ongais when his car hit the wall and burst into flames.  In the first days after the accident, though, the Mears family blasted the speedway for not having had a phalanx of uniformed firefighters ready to douse the fire. Bill Mears has since figured out why there weren't more.  ''I've looked at films and pictures,'' the father says. ''Just before Rick came in, Tom Sneva killed his motor a few pits down - let the clutch out too quick, which produced some smoke. I've counted 22 firemen in yellow fire suits rushing down to his pits.  ''See, they do have firemen, real good firemen, but they all went to where there was smoke. There was nobody left near Rick.'' One volunteer, assigned to hold a fire extinguisher, was not wearing a fireproof uniform. ''I saw the man with the extinguisher, and I ran to him, because he couldn't see the flames,'' Rick Mears says. ''I grabbed for the extinguisher, but he turned and ran. I found out later that I must have caught him on fire with my flames.''  Bill Mears, who was only eight feet away, says: ''I was blown backwards, and I smelled human hair burning and saw my daughter-inlaw, Dina, about to go over the wall to get to Rick. I just happened to see flames on Rick.''  Bill Mears held back his daughter-in-law, who was not wearing fireproof clothing and would have been badly burned. He was not wearing fireproof clothing, either, but he knew what he had to do.  ''The other guy just dropped the extinguisher and ran,'' Bill Mears said. ''I picked it up and started spraying Rick up and down.'' When the fire was extinguished, Bill Mears looked around for help, ''but there wasn't anybody there.'' He and Rick walked to the garage, commandeered an electric cart and drove to the hospital.  Rick Mears spent one night in the hospital, and the facial burns healed long before the anger. In an interview with Inside Sports magazine, Rick called the volunteer fire detail ''a lunch-box deal that gives you a free ticket to the race.''  ''They don't have the proper equipment,'' he added. ''They're not experienced.''  This week, Rick Mears said: ''Since I got back here, I realize they have made it better. They know what they're doing.'' Dick King, the president of the United States Auto Club, notes that the Speedway has put more water in the pit area, has raised the flame-retardant wall, has doubled the fail-safe locks on fuel nozzles and valves, and insists that fireproof uniforms be worn by anybody near the pits.  ''It is my understanding that the volunteers all have training in industrial fires,'' King says. Rick Mears says he now has faith in the Indy fire brigade. But just in case, the Penske outfit has purchased one extra fireproof uniform and given it to Bill Mears, and told him it is quite all right if he watches the race from just behind the pits.  Illustrations: photo of Bill and Rick Mears 
