19971211
 Film: Slavers and Ravers   By By Joe Morgenstern, The Wall Street Journal,  Dec 12, 1997  Thus does Mr. Spielberg begin his account of an event from 19th century American history, a revolt by Africans aboard a Spanish slave ship, La Amistad, off Cuba in 1839. This prelude is as powerful as anything the director has ever put on film, and "Amistad" is struck by other flashes of fierce brilliance along the way. It's a remarkable story. After taking over the ship, the African prisoners, who wanted to return to Africa, were tricked into sailing to Connecticut, where they were charged with murdering most of the ship's crew and imprisoned once again. They stood trial three times, amid legal battles incomprehensible to them, that were corrupted by presidential politics, may have hastened Emancipation and foreshadowed the Civil War. In this retelling, though, it often seems a synthetic story, however closely it may hew to historical fact, and eventually it turns into a tedious story hobbled by history's ambiguities and repetitions.  The most obvious structural difficulty involves the three trials, with their appeals and reversals of fortune. In the first two the Africans are defended en masse by Roger Baldwin (a droll, superficial performance by Matthew McConaughey), a walking lawyer joke who evolves from bloodless technician to committed humanist without David Franzoni's script seeming to notice. In the third trial, before the U. S. Supreme Court, the defense lawyer is no less a light than former President John Quincy Adams (Anthony Hopkins, charmingly inventive and eccentric in the role behind crude old-age makeup). Even this climax, though, is an uneasy mixture of fascinating rhetoric and false uplift. Adams argues, skillfully and quite beautifully, that the case involves the very nature of man. Yet the court's decision, which sets the prisoners free, doesn't address any moral or ethical aspects of slavery at all, only whether the Amistad Africans were in fact slaves, and therefore bound by existing international treaties.   
