19811218
Texas prisons stand as symbols of the state's tough criminal justice process. On vast prison plantations, convicts stoop in the broiling sun to cultivate vegetables for dining halls and cotton for uniforms. Only those who do well in the fields move on to vocational education. Wardens adhere to the autocratic, iron-fisted approach most states abandoned years ago.  But the prisons - and Texans' pride in them -suffered a sharp blow last April, when Federal Judge William Wayne Justice issued a scathing order against extreme overcrowding, brutality, poor staffing, inadequate medical care and disregard for inmates' rights.  Perhaps that wounded pride, as much as anything else, brings Texas lawyers into court today. Instead of using the ruling to extract more money for corrections from the Legislature, they are appealing it. The case is a dramatic reminder that when politicians insist on locking up criminals for longer terms, they incur huge hidden obligations.  Texas has a lot of crime; it has increased as northerners poured into Texas cities, and tough Texas justice has gotten even tougher. A once manageable flow of convicts has became a flood. At the time of the court order, wardens were stuffing three men into 45-square-foot cells - leaving barely enough room to move between bed and wash basin. The result was predictable: ''Inmates are routinely subject to brutality, extortion and rape at the hands of their cellmates.''  But as New York State learned when the prison bond issue lost, it is politically much easier to send more people to prisons than to expand those prisons to handle the extra business. Rather than entering into full negotiations with the Federal judge, Texas officials denounced most of his rulings, even blaming them for new inmate violence. They settled for minimal compliance, agreeing to upgrade medical care and moving prisoners out of three-man cells and into tents while they pursue their appeal.  Federal courts are causing trouble for state prisons all over the country. This week another Federal judge ordered early release of 330 Alabama inmates, bringing to more than 600 the number set free to ease overcrowding. It's tempting to make a political issue of such court orders.  But so combative a response is shortsighted, for the judges are only forcing recognition of the real obligations a state incurs when it cracks down on crime. We hope the appeals court keeps that in mind as it hears the next round in the Texas case. 
