19811129
I T wasn't very long ago - last year even - that buying a house was an almost surefire investment. With the easy availability of credit in general and inflation-beating appreciation, the risks were minimal, and just about everybody could count on a killing upon resale.  But prices today are easing and the cheap, long-term mortgage may now be part of history. A home today could be a chancy investment. As a result, many of the old rules of thumb of home buying are being altered.  * Rule 1: Housing costs - mortgage payment, taxes, insurance, utilities - should account for no more than 25 percent of a family's income.  Huge increases in mortgage rates and daunting energy costs have pushed that figure up to the point where some families are paying 50 percent.  According to Lex Crane, a Hackettstown, N.J., real estate associate with the Weichert Company Realtors, the official guideline for mortgage approval by the the Federal Housing Administration and the Veterans Administration is that the mortgage payment must be less than 28 percent of the gross monthly income before taxes - and that's just for payments on principal, interest and real estate taxes. When other debts are included in the calculations, the total cannot exceed 36 percent of the gross income. The Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, which buys mortgages from financial institutions, also observes these guidelines.  ''Most conventional lenders,'' Mr. Crane said, ''like to follow those guidelines because they want to make the mortgages they issue available on the secondary market through Fannie Mae.''  Based on figures supplied by both Mr. Crane, and Sally McGoey, a broker with Otto Vitale Real Estate on Staten Island, a married couple earning $25,000, with no debts outstanding, would today qualify for about a $32,000 mortgage, at 18 percent, payable over 30 years. Their monthly mortgage payment would be just under $500. In 1975, when the mortgage rate was 8 percent, this same couple would qualify for about a $66,000 mortgage. A couple making $100,000 today can possibly get $135,000, and pay about $2,000 a month. In 1975, they could get about $275,000. In both cases, their monthly payments now would be about the same respective amounts as the 1975 figures - but for mortgages half the size.  * Rule 2: The amount of a mortgage should be two and a half times that of annual gross income. ''That rule is not even used anymore,'' commented Weichert's Mr. Crane. ''The last time I saw that figure expressed, it was 1.7 times annual income.'' Not many people could qualify under the old two-anda-half rule at today's rates, he said - as the previous examples demonstrate.  ''Oh, they couldn't possible use that old rule, and eat,'' commented Mrs. McGoey of the Vitale agency. She said that no variation of a gross annual income rule was quoted in her area.  * Rule 3: It is wiser to own than to rent. It may not pay to buy a house at today's rates, particularly if a move in the near future is possible. Closing costs may outweigh the appreciation on a house, especially in a soft market. And certain types of financing, such as shared appreciation mortgages, in which the lender gets a piece of the amount by which the house has appreciated, can mitigate against a quick turnover.  The current rule of thumb runs something like this: If you are going to move into a new area for a year to 18 months, then rent. More than two years, buy. In between, it's a toss-up.  Renting might be appealing if you can get a multi-year lease at a fixed rate. However, as more and more people find themselves locked out of the housing market and forced to rent, rents go up.  * Rule 4: Put up as little cash as possible. The idea here was that Uncle Sam would help buy the house through tax deductions. The tax deduction for interest is still an important consideration. Many people who buy a house overextend themselves with the expectation that their income tax refund will put them back in the black and keep them going for another year. But with today's high monthly mortgage payments, many people may be beginning to ask themselves whether it pays to get deeper into debt while doing without many of life's amenities. Wouldn't all that money be better used in high-yielding investments, such as money market funds, where it could grow and contribute in the future to a really substantial down payment, perhaps at a time of lower interest rates?  The answer is probably no. While rates on alternative investments are high, they still lag behind mortgages. Thus most people, if they can swing it, are better off with a mortgage and the interest-payment tax break, than investing elsewhere.  * Rule 5: Take the longest-term mortgage possible. This rule still applies - provided the buyer can find a banker who goes along. Fewer lenders are willing to offer long-term, fixed-rate mortgages. The V.A. and the F.H.A. will, at about 16 1/2 percent, and some banks will also, at about 20 percent. And, of course, there are still some mortgages around that are assumable, at lower rates. (V.A. and F.H.A. mortgages are assumable as currently written, but most others have ''due on sale clauses.'')  The alternatives to the long-term, fixed-rate loan are many, varied, and confusing. There is the ''balloon mortgage,'' the ''renegotiable-rate mortgage,'' the ''variable-rate mortgage,'' and others; all of which have in common a relatively short term before the loan rate must be changed to reflect prevailing interest rates. The lender thus has some protection against the vagaries of interest rate fluctuation.  While such newfangled contracts are basically designed to protect banks and other lenders, that does@n't mean that they aren't worth investigating. If rates should come down, monthly payments could decrease as well. And should the lender be reluctant to decrease the rate to your satisfaction, the option to renegotiate the loan elsewhere always remains.  * Rule 6: A home is a good investment. This is a relatively new view, born of the surge in house prices during the last decade. When money was cheaper, banks encouraged this view by urging customers to cash in on the appreciation of their homes by taking second mortgages. People also bought houses, only to sell them before the housewarming gifts got cold, again to collect the capital gain. Yet, selling a home remains the last resort in a crisis, and opportunities for overnight gains have all but disappeared. On the other hand, a home can still be a safe harbor for family assets, and it's also still the average consumer's best tax shelter. In short, a house can offer shelter against the elements, and taxes, and be a sound capital investment.  How reliable are today's rules for home buying? Reliable enough - for now. But there are forces at work that could undo a few. Prices could go off on another bender, stirring the urge for quick gains again. If rates continue to ease, for example, housing demand would revive and prices would climb, spurred perhaps by the ''baby boom'' generation, an enormous number of couples in their mid-30's who have not owned a house and desperately want to. Their desires, says Mr. Crane, could prompt ''a real estate boom of unprecedented proportions.''  Illustrations: drawing of a house on an obstacle course 
