19810118
WASHINGTON— Robert W. Warner had never set foot inside a Congressional hearing room until last week. As Archivist of the United States, and so head of the National Archives and Records Service, he had come to tell the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he could not produce requested logs summarizing taped conversations between former President Nixon and Alexander M. Haig Jr., then White House chief of staff and now Secretary of Statedesignate, until Mr. Nixon had a chance to object. (On Friday, Mr. Nixon exercised his option; if the Archives reject the objection, his attorneys will have five more days to file suit.)  Mr. Warner's was an unusual Congressional debut for a man who in the months, and perhaps years, ahead will seek increased financial support and greater authority from Congress for his troubled institution.  When Dr. Warner accepted the job as the nation's Archivist last fall, taking a leave of absence from his post as director of the Bentley Historical Library at the University of Michigan, colleagues predicted that even he could not reform the agency. The National Archives is sinking in a sea of records, new and old. Its annual appropriation of about $85 million is too small to effectively carry on day-to-day operations, much less mount a necessary investigation of new ways to condense and preserve materials. Scholars complain of obstacles in the path of their efforts to gain access to stored documents. And from inside and outside the agency have come accusations that the National Archives has been derelict in protecting the nation's historical record.  Dr. Warner, however, says he feels equal to these challenges, though his working days have lengthened. His agency's headquarters, a great stone edifice on Pennsylvania Avenue, is the city's most nearly bomb-proof structure, with few windows, 72 massive Corinthian columns and the world's largest bronze doors. The National Archives also embraces seven presidential libraries and 15 regional centers around the nation and houses billions of items. These range from documents such as the Declaration of Independence and the Louisiana Purchase Treaty to the artifacts of John F. Kennedy's assassination, including autopsy photographs and Xrays, the gun used, the bullet, his clothes.  In the vast archival plain between lie many hundreds of motion picture films; five million still photographs; more than a 1.5 million architectural drawings and maps, including those of Lewis and Clark and Mason and Dixon; 72,000 sound recordings and about 100,000 museum objects. The National Archives, in short, is the nation's safe and its official memory.  Most recently, it has also been the object of criticism inside and outside scholarly circles. The controversy over public access to the Nixon Administration tapes and records represents only the most recent battleground. Last year, for example, historians, scholars, journalists and others went to court trying to stop the Federal Bureau of Investigation from destroying wiretapping records, surveillance logs and field office files it would have had to reveal under the Freedom of Information Act. In January, a Federal judge ordered a halt in the destruction and told the United States Archivist to design a file-retention plan and submit it to the court. In the future, said  Judge Harold H. Greene, no files are to be destroyed before qualified historians and archivists review them. In his decision, Judge Greene criticized not only the F.B.I., but the Archivist, who is required by law to review files before they are destroyed. The judge said Archives employees testified that they were able to evaluate the files without seeing them. Said Judge Greene: ''It strains credulity to accept the proposition that such decisions can be made wholly by remote control''; bureau files are ''a significant repository of the recent history of this nation,'' and ''the public interest demands that great care be taken before such records are committed to destruction.''  The Archives Within  Great care, say scholars, should also be taken in keeping Government officials from removing papers from the public domain. Their prime example: their own efforts, through scholarly organizations, to overturn a decision by the General Services Administration giving former President Nixon control over his tape recordings and papers.  That the General Services Administration, a housekeeping agency for the Federal Government, enters into a discussion of the National Archives points to a fundamental criticism of the institution. Although Congress established the Archives as an independent agency in 1934, it has been under the wing of the General Services Administration since 1949. The G.S.A.'s director, a political appointee of the President, appoints the Archivist, a procedure that scholars protest is too political for their taste and ignores the National Archives' needs. The appointment of Dr. Warner, a well-known historian and archivist brought in from outside the agency, has given hope of a possible reorganization. 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
