19810525
Dominique Khalfouni was a leading young ballerina of the Paris Opera Ballet, a special favorite with youthful audiences, when she resigned last year to join Roland Petit's Ballet National de Marseilles.  It was with Mr. Petit's company that she was first seen in New York last September. This week, she's back at Mikhail Baryshnikov's invitation to make several appearances with American Ballet Theater.  Her ''Giselle'' with Mr. Baryshnikov on Saturday night at the Metropolitan Opera House can only be called a triumph, not only for her own performance but also for the infusion of romantic feeling she brought to this new and formalized production.  There are some reservations about her technique. She can be unsteady, and she favors faster tempos that short-cut certain difficulties. She has a tendency toward turned-in line, and her arms can strike those new to the Paris Opera's dancers as mannered. Yet she looks the romantic-ballerina type, and she instinctively points up this type's features. The most vivid example was her brilliance in stressing a contrast between the two acts.  In Act I, her peasant girl was coquettish and spirited. She pouted in the daisy scene, and she was forward rather than shy about her love for Albrecht. When her mother scolded her a second time, Miss Khalfouni exasperatedly threw her hands down in a very French gesture - as if to say, ''Not again.'' A lively Giselle promised an animated mad scene, and the result resembled a series of movie close-ups.  As good as she was in Act I, Act II found Miss Khalfouni totally in her element. The sinister and ideal came together in her startlingly spectral imagery. This was not a pretty, ethereal Giselle. With her strong-boned face in white, Miss Khalfouni swept in the supernatural side of a romantic libretto. She pitied Albrecht rather than fought for him. She introduced small running steps. And when she went back to the grave, she stiffened as if controlled by an inexorable force.  How wonderful to see Mr. Baryshnikov's own characterization react so strongly to his partner's. The amiable, unfeeling aristocrat became obviously shaken by this very ghostly encounter. He even danced his main solo better than three weeks ago.  As an entree, Peter Fonseca, Cheryl Yeager and Lisa de Ribere made their debuts in the pas de trois from Bournonville's ''The Guards of Amader.'' The women did nicely, but Mr. Fonseca was spectacular. His multiple turns were timed to wind down slowly, and his beats were high and precise. Kept too long in the corps, he has emerged as one of the company's best and most interesting dancers. 
