20010302
 Futures & Options: Spring Art Shows, Off and Running   By By Robert J. Hughes, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 2, 2001  [Vincent Van Gogh] remains such a draw at museums that institutions look for new ways to repackage him. This show looks at van Gogh's personal and professional interaction with his contemporaries, including Gauguin, Toulouse-Lautrec and others. Van Gogh called them painters of the "petit boulevard," distinguishing them from the Impressionists, the painters of the "grand boulevard." Some of the works here have never been seen in the U.S. Hours are 1:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wednesdays through Sundays. Admission is $5 for adults, $4 for students and seniors, $3 for children six to 12 and free to everyone on Tuesdays.  MANY ART CRITICS considered the National Gallery of Art's [Vermeer] exhibition the best show of the past decade, and the crowds who flocked to it apparently agreed. Now, the Metropolitan Museum puts some of the great master's works on view in New York. This show looks at not only his paintings, but also those of other painters of the Delft School, a group of artists who specialized in hushed, luminously painted images of domestic life in Holland during the mid-1600s. Admission is pay what you like, although the museum suggests a $10 donation for adults, $5 for students and seniors. Hours are Tuesday to Thursday 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Fridays and Saturdays 9:30 a.m. to 9 p.m. and Sundays 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.  MADAME DE POMPADOUR was Louis XV's official mistress, and she is up close and personal in a sumptuous Boucher portrait on loan here from Scotland's National Gallery of Art. While that museum does some housecleaning, a trove of its treasures is traveling. This exhibition features more than 50 paintings from such masters as Goya, El Greco and Delacroix. Among the works are Constable's "The Vale of Dedham" and Frederic Church's "Niagara Falls from the American Side," contrasting landscapes of the old and new worlds. Hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday and 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday. Open until 9 p.m. the first Wednesday of every month. Admission is $5 for adults, $4 for seniors. The show travels to the Georgia Museum of Art in Athens, beginning in June.   
