20060804
 Bench on Fire: KPMG Judge Grills Prosecutors; Kaplan Chides U.S. Attorneys Over Handling of Fraud Case; Citing Medieval English Law   By Davies, Paul, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 5, 2006  Since then, he has stepped up the pressure. The government says its prosecution of the 18 defendants is its largest tax-fraud case ever. At one recent hearing, Judge [Lewis A. Kaplan] said the government had turned the case into "a holy mess for itself." On July 26, he ruled that federal prosecutors violated the Fifth Amendment rights of two former KPMG partners by "deliberately" coercing them to speak with investigators before they were indicted; he barred the statements from being used at trial. A week earlier, he delayed the trial by four months, citing government delays in turning over information to defense lawyers, and the unresolved legal-fee dispute. Judge Kaplan is considering imposing sanctions on the government and hinted that he could dismiss the case.  Judge Kaplan routinely disqualifies himself from cases involving [Paul, Weiss], recently declining to oversee the possible retrial of investment banker Frank Quattrone, who is represented by an attorney at the firm. But antismoking groups criticized him for not recusing himself from a case involving R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings Inc., which is now named Reynolds American Inc. As a visiting judge in the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York, he was part of a 2-1 majority in 2001 that upheld the dismissal of a cigarette-smuggling case brought by the government of Canada. At Paul Weiss, Judge Kaplan had represented Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. and participated in meetings involving a committee of tobacco lawyers in the 1970s and 1980s that mapped joint legal and political strategies. An antismoking group said he should have disqualified himself, though it wasn't required. "Anyone hearing the facts understands it was a conflict," said Garfield Mahood, executive director of the Non-Smokers' Rights Association in Toronto.  After the judge's ruling in the legal-fee decision, U.S. Attorney Michael J. Garcia, the top federal prosecutor in Manhattan, took a rare step of publicly suggesting a federal judge stepped over the line in criticizing his assistant U.S. attorneys. In addition to singling out prosecutors by name, Judge Kaplan's opinion said the government "was economical with the truth" when it denied pressuring KPMG to stop paying the employees' legal fees and blamed the nonpayment on KPMG alone. In response, Mr. Garcia wrote a letter asking the judge to withdraw their names and statements criticizing the prosecutor's office. Judge Kaplan rejected the request.   
