19810524
WASHINGTON— It used to be celebrated as Decoration Day, then as Memorial Day - sometimes even by the simpler English name of Remembrance Day - but lately we have forgotten to remember why it was set apart: On May 5, 1868, Gen. John A. Logan, Commander in Chief of the Grand Army of the Republic, issued an order that on May 30 of that year there should be a pause to decorate the graves of the soldiers killed in the Civil War, and to pray for reconciliation and peace.  Since then we have had five wars, with so many more graves to decorate that we are running out of space here in Arlington Cemetery. Yet one of the most significant aspects of politics here now is that very little is said about how to avoid another war. There is no discussion, as there was in the years after the Second World War, of organizing the nations for peace, no debates about Baruch plans or Acheson plans or Lilienthal plans for the control of nuclear weapons, no Eisenhower plan for transferring tens of billions of dollars from military to civilian purposes.  It almost seems to be accepted that safety lies in more and more military weapons, now costing the world over $800 billion a year. The United States military budget - significantly called the ''defense'' budget - is now larger than the entire Federal budget of 20 years ago and the main opposition to it comes from those who want to make it even larger.  Occasionally somebody does speak out against the prevailing indifference to the mounting cost and danger of the arms race, but their warnings are certainly not part of any serious debate between the parties or even much thoughtful discussion in the press.  Prof. Henry Kendall, a physicist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and chairman of the Union of Concerned Scientists, recently made a speech at the State University of Groningen in the Netherlands, deploring the mounting tension between the major nuclear nations and the lack of debate about that perilous predicament.  ''The danger of nuclear war remains one of the grim features of modern life,'' he said. ''... a few U.S. nuclear strategists, some of them with close associations with the present Reagan Administration, even believe that 'limited' nuclear wars can be fought - and in terms of American political objectives - 'won.' Europeans no doubt, living as they do on one of the primary potential battlefields, must find this opinion rather unsettling ....''  The explosion of a one-megaton weapon in the lower atmosphere,'' he reports, ''will create a fireball some 7,000 feet in diameter: a million tons of air will be heated above 2,000 degrees centigrade. Detonated at or near the ground the weapon will dig a crater nearly one-fifth of a mile in diameter and 300 feet deep. If such an explosion occurs in an urban area, some 50 square miles will be totally destroyed by the blast effects and much of the wreckage burned out from fires started by the heat ....''  We will spare you the gruesome details of his estimates of death and destruction in any nuclear war, but Senator Edward Kennedy did manage to get the entire speech printed, without debate, in the appendix to the Congressional Record of May 12, 1981.  George Kennan, probably our most distinguished and certainly our most articulate living diplomat, was in Washington last week to receive the Albert Einstein Peace Prize.  He asserted that the United States and the Soviet Union were now on a ''collision course politically'' and that the ''process of rational communications between the two governments seems to have broken down completely.''  ''Every President of this country from Dwight Eisenhower to Jimmy Carter,'' he said, ''has tried to remind us that there could be no such thing as victory in a war fought with such weapons ... (yet) when one looks back over the history of these warnings, one has the impression that something has now been lost of the sense of urgency, the hopes, and the excitement that initially inspired them so many years ago.  ''One senses, even on the part of those who today most acutely perceive the problem and are inwardly most exercised about it, a certain discouragement, resignation, perhaps even despair, when it comes to the question or raising the subject again ....''  Kennan has little faith that the present crisis can be averted by merely renewing the strategic arms talks with the Soviet Union and agreeing to small reductions in nuclear arms.  ''I can see no way out of this dilemma,'' he observes, ''other than by a bold and sweeping departure .... I would like to see the President, after appropriate consultation with the Congress ... propose to the Soviet Government an immediate across-the-board reduction by 50 percent of the nuclear arsenals now being maintained by the two superpowers ....''  Though this dramatic proposal came from the man who has the longest experience of any American on Soviet affairs and who originally proposed the policy for ''containing'' the expansion of Soviet power, his remarks were not widely discussed or even circulated.  It is this silence - or indifference -or forgetfulness - that is so ominous on this Remembrance Day. George Kennan may be right or wrong, but with his record, he is certainly not irrelevant, and might even be as worth listening to as, say, Senator Jesse Helms, North Carolina's gift to peace and good will. 
