19810815
WINSTON— SALEM, N.C., Aug. 14 (AP) - A man described as a church deacon was found guilty today of holding eight teen-agers in involuntary servitude and was sentenced to 20 years in prison.  A Federal District Court jury deliberated about three hours over two days in the case of Jimmy Conyers, 39 years old, described by witnesses as a deacon in the Church of God and True Holiness, which had congregations in Durham and Wilson, N.C., and in Florence, S.C. Mr. Conyers was also convicted of conspiracy. He was the fourth leader of the church to be found guilty of similar charges.  Mr. Conyers, who was also accused of conducting forced marriages, beatings and theft, received four consecutive sentences of five years each.  After the trial, Judge Hiram H. Ward said, ''With the possible exception of one horrible premeditated murder case I once tried, this is the most heinous evidence I've ever heard in my life.'' Youths Held for 4 Years  In the trial, Richard Roberts, the prosecutor, said Mr. Conyers conspired with other church leaders to hold the teen-agers in ''child slavery, all under the guise of working in the name of the Lord'' from 1974 to 1978.  Mr. Roberts asserted that church leaders relied on fear, beatings and public rebukes to deprive the teen-agers, most of them children of church members, ''of their normal life force'' and of more than $100,000.  The youths were forced to work without pay or to turn earnings from other jobs over to the church. A young woman and two young men in the church testified that they were forced to marry at early ages. Lawyer Calls Client a Pawn  Mr. Conyers's attorney, Steve Allen, contended that his client was a pawn of leaders of the Christian church. He said Mr. Conyers was a former farm boy who ''got involved in what turned out to be a religious misadventure.''  Robert Allan Carr, leader of the all-black church, and Asanthia Carr Cain and Larry Cain, Mr. Carr's daughter and son-in-law, were indicted with Mr. Conyers in October 1979 after a two-year investigation by the authorities.  Mr. Carr and the Cains were sentenced to prison last year after pleading guilty to similar charges connected with the church. 
