19810415
PRETORIA, South Africa, April 14— The Reagan Administration's specialist on African affairs, Chester A. Crocker, arrived here this evening on the sixth stop of a 10-nation African tour that is believed to be aimed at reviving stalled efforts to achieve independence for the disputed territory of South-West Africa.  After some uncertainty, the South African authorities waited until last night before informing the American Embassy that Prime Minister P.W. Botha would not be able to receive Mr. Crocker, who is the Assistant Secretary of State-designate for African Affairs. An embassy spokesman stressed that there had never been any commitment that the Prime Minister would meet Mr. Crocker, but the possibility of Mr. Crocker's making a trip to Cape Town for that purpose had been kept open until the last minute.  On his previous stops in African capitals, Mr. Crocker repeatedly denied that the Reagan Administration was shaping a foreign policy that would favor South Africa. ''There is no question of a tilt or an endorsement of apartheid, or a tilt toward South Africa,'' he declared on his arrival in Zimbabwe. Earlier, in Nairobi, he had said that the United States would encourage South Africa ''to move away from apartheid.''  Outside Pressure Rejected  In a speech in Cape Town the other evening, Prime Minister Botha provided indirect evidence that he had been following the drift of these comments. ''We will not allow others to prescribe to us,'' he declared. ''Not today or in the future.'  It was the kind of signal Mr. Botha repeatedly sent to the Carter Administration and it seemed to mark a falling off of the high expectations that South Africa's white leadership had appeared to have for the Reagan Administration.  However, it should also be noted that South Africa is only two weeks away from a general election. It is possible that the Prime Minister concluded that his seeing Mr. Crocker could only give rise to speculation in the final days of the campaign that South Africa was revising its position on South-West Africa, known also as Namibia, under American pressure, an interpretation that could conceivably hurt Mr. Botha's National Party with wavering Afrikaner voters.  The party's landslide victories, after 32 years in power, are virtually automatic now, but it is personally important for the Prime Minister's standing within the party that right-wing splinter groups make no visible headway among the all-white electorate.  On his arrival from Swaziland at the Waterkloof military air base outside Pretoria, Mr. Crocker was asked whether there was any reason that he would not be meeting with Prime Minister Botha. ''Not that I'm aware of,'' he replied. Meeting With Foreign Chief Set  Mr. Crocker is probably somewhat better known in political circles here than he is in Washington, if only because the South African press has spent much of the time since the American election poring over his articles on Africa in search of clues as to American policy directions. He is assured of a cordial reception at the Department of Foreign Affairs where he will confer tomorrow with the Foreign Minister, Roelof F. Botha.  In his arrival remarks he said he was not carrying ''any made-in-Washington solution'' to the Namibia problem, but there have been indications that he is seeking to win agreement from South Africa and the neighboring black states to a new approach to the stalled negotiation.  Under a plan presented three years ago by five Western nations, including the United States, a cease-fire in the disputed territory would be followed by an internationally supervised election of a constituent assembly that would then have a free hand to draft a constitution.  The new American approach is thought to be for a conference of all parties to work out the basic principles of a constitution before an election is held. South African officials have indicated that this approach would be welcomed here.  The response of the neighboring black states and especially of the South-West Africa People's Organization, the insurgent movement that is fighting against South African forces along Namibia's border with Angola, has yet to be given. 
