20030311
 Will They Fight?   By By Stuart Herrington, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 12, 2003  We were told our coalition forces would face a million-man, battle-hardened Iraqi army whose soldiers were masters of defense. Had not Iraqi artillery harvested Iranians by the tens of thousands in the recently concluded Iran-Iraq War? [Saddam Hussein]'s ruthlessness would mean chemical, biological, even nuclear weapons might rain down on coalition forces. Thirty thousand Americans might die. The Iraqi dictator would unleash the mailed fist of terrorism world-wide, and the world economy would be destabilized as oil prices skyrocketed to $200 a barrel. Israel could be drawn into the conflict, which would engulf the entire Middle East in a doomsday-like scenario.  Some of our officer prisoners were tribesmen, Turkmens, and Shia muslims. They could not conceal their fear of Saddam, or their hatred. One commander volunteered to his interrogator that he was willing to attempt to assassinate Hussein. As it became clear that coalition forces would not cross the Euphrates and move on Baghdad, one officer was distraught. "You have just made a big mistake, Colonel," he intoned. "When you try to kill a snake, you must strike the head, not the body. You should have done to Saddam what you did to Noriega." Another told his debriefer with sadness in his voice, "If you had sent your troops to Baghdad, the people would have welcomed them as liberators, and Saddam's security forces would have melted away. You have missed your big chance."  When the ordnance starts flying, let's hope that Gen. Tommy Franks's campaign plan to "shock and awe" the Iraqi leadership and its military doesn't squander the opportunity to gain the support of Saddam's hosts of enemies. President Bush's assurances that we have nothing against the Iraqi people must be reinforced by precisely directed firepower, so that the many Iraqis who might be inclined to turn on Saddam Hussein and his inner circle will feel free to do so, even as our forces approach Baghdad.   
