19871005
 ...With Museums for African and Asian Art   By By Jack Flam, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 6, 1987  Washington -- "Better to reign in Hell than serve in Heav'n," Milton's lord of the underworld avers. And it is in a seemingly similar spirit that the arts of Africa and the East have been consigned to the nether regions under the National Mall, apparently lost to God's sight. In order to see the art housed in the National Museum of African Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery (for Asian art) you not only have to descend into the bowels of the earth but also have to get past -- or in any case get used to -- what must be some of the ugliest and most oppressive museum architecture in the world. But the trip is worth it, for interred in these latest additions to the Smithsonian museum complex is some of the most interesting and beautiful art in the nation's capital.  The Museum of African Art was founded in 1964 as a private institution dedicated to Afro-American as well as African art. When it became part of the Smithsonian in 1979, its mandate was focused specifically on the art of black Africa. And since 1983, when it was placed under the direction of art historian Sylvia Williams, the museum has been trying to improve its collections, sifting through the large amount of junk it had while bidding for masterpieces in a sharply rising market.  The Sackler Gallery grew out of very nearly opposite circumstances. The late Dr. Sackler, who was known for being as generous as he was difficult, got the museum that bears his name off the ground (so to speak) in 1982 with a substantial gift from one of the world's finest collections of Chinese bronzes and jades, and an important collection of objects from the ancient Near East. The Sackler is buried right out in the yard of its parent museum, the Freer Gallery, which since 1923 has housed a wonderful collection of Asiatic art, but that, according to the terms of Charles Lang Freer's gift, can neither lend nor borrow objects. The combined collections, libraries and conservation facilities of these administratively linked galleries will make the Smithsonian one of the world's most important resources for Oriental art.   
