20080217
CORRECTION APPENDED Correction Appended  IMAGINE a letter slipped under an apartment door, and then a warning of a lawsuit in the offing: ''As you may not be aware, we are both lawyers and both litigators, for whom the usual barriers to litigation are minimal.''  That was the curt beginning of a lawsuit at the Ansonia, a condominium on Broadway and 73rd Street, filed this month by two Ivy League-educated lawyers against a neighbor, a restaurateur, over secondhand smoke they said was wafting into the hallway from her apartment. Jonathan Selbin, whose field is class-action cases, and his wife, Jenny Selbin, represented themselves, without a fee, according to state court filings.  The case has raised concern among managing agents and lawyers about secondhand smoke in co-ops and condominiums as well as the appropriateness of lawyers' using their knowledge of the legal system to take on neighbors.  ''It is not unethical -- it is unneighborly,'' said Stephen Gillers, a law professor at New York University who specializes in legal ethics. ''It is contrary to what we think of when we use the word cooperative. It is unwise, unless you are desperate.''  And if it is sometimes unwise and unneighborly, do co-op and condo boards worry about having too many litigators on the premises? Last fall, another resident of the Ansonia, a lawyer who is renting a condo from a friend, filed suit against the building's management company complaining about ''a horrific plague of roaches.''  Some landlords are leery of renting to lawyers, but the attitudes of co-op and condo boards toward lawyers wishing to buy into a building have changed, and have been fairly benign in recent years, managing agents say. After all, many lawyers serve on building boards and add, at the minimum, a patina of professionalism to meetings.  While it is illegal to discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, age, national origin and many other factors, discrimination against someone because he or she is a member of the legal profession was, for a time, perfectly legal. Precedent was established by a 1977 case, which lawyers sometimes cite as a joke on lawyers. When the general counsel of the city's Commission on Human Rights, a divorced black woman, sued a landlord for discrimination for refusing to rent to her, the court found that the landlord, who had rented to many black tenants and many women, had a right to refuse to give her a lease because she was a lawyer and might sue. This stood until 1986, when the city's human rights law was amended to bar discrimination in housing on the basis of a lawful occupation. Nonetheless, Co-op and condominium boards may still reject lawyers and other applicants based on specific actions -- for instance, a pattern of filing lawsuits against neighbors.  Anthony vanEyck Miller, a vice president of Bellmarc Realty, says boards don't mind lawyers, but he warns buyers about using the word ''litigator'' on applications. ''It is almost pejorative in the context,'' he said. ''It is not quite as bad as terrorist, but it makes people nervous.''  Felicia de Chabris, a broker at Halstead Property's Greenwich Village office, said that lawyers are usually approved, especially if they are helpful and show humility.  But she pointed out that a pattern of past lawsuits could pose a problem, especially when suits have been filed against neighbors or co-ops or condo boards. ''Sending a quick legal letter is one thing,'' she said. ''Actually litigating is not a good idea.''  In the case of the Ansonia, the lawyers who sued complained that the neighbor who smoked next door, Galila Huff, was creating a nuisance by failing to provide ventilation when she smoked and endangering their 4-year-old son.  The neighbor, a chain smoker, said she had tried to respond to their complaints and had even bought air purifiers to reduce the amount of smoke. But the lawyers complained that she had failed to provide them with receipts proving that she had made the purchases.   Correction: February 24, 2008  A report in the Big Deal column last Sunday about lawyers who sue their neighbors in apartment buildings misstated the circumstances under which lawyers can be refused housing in New York City. Although a 1977 court decision upheld a landlord's right to refuse to rent to a lawyer, the city's human rights law was amended in 1986 to bar discrimination in housing on the basis of a lawful occupation. Co-op and condominium boards may, however, reject lawyers and other applicants based on specific actions -- for instance, a pattern of filing lawsuits against neighbors.  PHOTO: The Ansonia  Correction: February 24, 2008, Sunday A report in the Big Deal column last Sunday about lawyers who sue their neighbors in apartment buildings misstated the circumstances under which lawyers can be refused housing in New York City. Although a 1977 court decision upheld a landlord's right to refuse to rent to a lawyer, the city's human rights law was amended in 1986 to bar discrimination in housing on the basis of a lawful occupation. Co-op and condominium boards may, however, reject lawyers and other applicants based on specific actions -- for instance, a pattern of filing lawsuits against neighbors.  
