19820618
PHILADELPHIA, June 17— In slow and stately procession, the tall ships came to Philadelphia today, and Philadelphians crowded the shores of the Delaware River to bid them welcome and to glory in the honor of their visit.  Thirty-four square-riggers and sloops, yawls and schooners, barks, barkentines and brigantines participated in a ''parade of sail,'' following the course that William Penn first sailed and helping the city celebrate the 300th anniversary of that event.  As the ships neared Penn's Landing, where legend says the city's founder arrived, cannon saluted, fireboats sprayed, foghorns blared and smaller boats played like sparrows among eagles. The masts of the biggest ships stood bare, swaying gracefully in a headwind.  Instead of sails, sailors and cadets stood outlined against the sky, arrayed in precise formations on spars and rigging, and were cheered by the crowds ashore. The sails had been furled downstream, and tugs and the vessels' own engines nudged them past the Walt Whitman Bridge to the landing. Narrow Channel Blamed  An early explanation circulating in the crowds blamed the headwind for the lack of sail, but Fred Stein, director of Century IV, the name given the city's yearlong celebration, attributed it to the narrow channel of the Delaware.  The official welcome was offered by Gov. Dick Thornburgh, Drew Lewis, the United States Secretary of Transportation, and Mayor William J. Green, and politics seemed to be laid aside for the day.  ''Hats off to this great city of Philadelphia, to 300 great years and an absolutely unlimited future,'' said Governor Thornburgh, a Republican.  ''Bill Green and Philadelphia are the finest city we deal with,'' said Mr. Lewis, also a Republican. Mr. Green, a Democrat, remarked privately, ''I think it's spectacular. It's a chance to showcase these ships next to the world's greatest city.''  The Mayor also expressed a thought heard occasionally among the crowd. ''Ever since 1976, when the tall ships went to New York instead of coming here to the birthplace of the nation, I've been working on this,'' he said. And Mr. Thornburgh added, ''Eat your heart out, New York.''  The arrival of the tall ships was the third of six major events in the city's tricentennial celebration. It was preceded by a visit from the Queen Elizabeth 2 and a ''feasting festival.'' Still to come are a music festival, to be held from June 30 to July 11, a neighborhoods festival on the first three full weekends in August, and Heritage Week, Oct. 23 to 31, celebrating the 300th anniversary of Penn's arrival.  Today's event was an international parade; the ships came from about a dozen countries. Of the 34 vessels, 10 were true tall ships, in the Class A sailing category. Floating Torture Chamber  Of those, Chile's Esmeralda was unable to reach Penn's Landing because her 165-foot masts were too tall to pass under the Walt Whitman Bridge. Instead, she docked at the Naval Shipyard downriver, where she was also singled out for another reason.  The Esmeralda, which had been declared unwelcome by the City Council o the ground that she was used as a floating torture chamber after the military coup in 1973, was being picketed by a small group of protesters. Century IV rejected the council's protest, saying the cadets aboard should not be blamed for the ship's past.  At Penn's Landing, where the crowd was estimated by Mr. Stein at 700,000, the scene was more carefree. ''I've just never seen so many ships before,'' said 16-year-old Lisa Brotnitsky, watching from the U.S.S. Olympia, Admiral Dewey's flagship in the Battle of Manila Bay in the Spanish American War. The ship is one of several docked there as tourist attractions.  ''Fantastic,'' said a companion, Karen Botts.  Illustrations: photo of Venezuelan ship photo of spectators at Ben Franklin Bridge 
