19810215
Some of its natives still refer to Connemara as the edge of the world. A maritime expanse of rocky, mountainous bogland dotted with lakes in Ireland's County Galway, it is the westernmost wilderness in Europe, and not a place that recommends itself for a winter vacation. But when my husband, Paul, and I set out from the city of Galway on a counterclockwise circuit that rambled for 10 days through 250 miles of Connemara's perimeter, the advantages of an off-season visit became clear.  Roads were empty of all but local traffic and nomadic sheep. Most hotels were becalmed, awaiting guests, so we had our pick of rooms at lower rates. It was quiet, but far from desolate: People we met in shops and bars were more inclined to unguarded conversation and curiosity than they might otherwise have been. The pattern of daily life was undisturbed; families were at home in the evenings, burning turf fires that saturated the air with that musty, sweet incense-like fragance that permeates Ireland.  The weather, too, is unique. It is not uncommon to live through all the seasons in one day. In an infamously changeable climate - summer can be an Arctic deluge, but the sun can shine brightly for the entire month of February - winter is the only time when the elements cannot disappoint. By expecting the worst, one can only be pleasantly surprised.  I took Paul home to meet his new relatives and we spent the first few nights near Galway with my grand-mother, a stoic believer in howling gales of fresh air, whose house had only recently been compromised with a hot water heater.  The first thing it is important to realize about Ireland is that a different set of priorities governs life. Time is decidedly not of the essence, the pace is slower, the people calmer; and consumer products are not high on the list of creature comforts. It takes time to adjust to life without hot and cold running everything, so in the interests of our short trip we decided to opt out of the simple life and try for luxury.  There is no one route prescribed for touring Connemara; part of the joy is in dithering about in circles as the spirit moves. We started out from Galway at the southern end of Lough Corrib and drove north toward Oughterard, 17 miles farther up the lake. At the point where the River Corrib leaves the lake it is just possible to glimpse over the stone walls the charred ruin of Menlow Castle. Once the country seat of a baronet and a treasured vantage point for picnicking spectators at the Galway Regatta, Menlow was destroyed by fire in 1910.  From Oughterard one can hire a boat to fish on the lough or just island-hop. Lough Corrib is 68 square miles of the best free fishing in the world and it is said to have an island for every day of the year. There are verdurous acres of islands and barren bird sanctuaries no larger than rocks. Some, like Inishanbo, are inhabited; one island is patrolled by a mad one-horned goat. The woods of Inchagoill conceal the ruins of two ancient churches. One dates to the time of St. Patrick's mission; the other, built 500 years later in the 12th century, is still accessible through a Celtic door, arched with a halo of sculptured heads, probably of saints. And at the base of the church a Byzantine cross is carved, confirming for some archeologists an early contact between Ireland and Greece.  Inchagoill can be reached from Cong, or from any point along the lake, and it is a wonderful place for long walks through avenues and mysterious churchyards.  Two miles outside Oughterard, we passed the 400-year-old stronghold of the dreaded O Flaherties - Aughnanure Castle. For years I had tramped to the castle through the muddy farmyard of a nearby house. Passing geese, cockerels, donkeys, dogs, I would come upon the stream that formed the moat to the castle. Now there is a freshly graveled public footpath that somehow diminishes the adventure. In Ireland, ruins and places of interest used always to be at the end of someone's garden, so that the occasional visitor would simply hop over a gate and stroll around the house to see the object of his curiosity. No one seemed to mind, and it is only within the last decade that someone has thought to provide car parks and to erect signposts. A pity.  We reached the broad market square of Oughterard and continued along a main street flanked by low cottages, some thatched, toward the slate gray walls of the school and Catholic church. Here the road turns sharp right over the Owenriffe River and a couple of hundred yards down the road is the Georgian facade of Sweeney's Oughterard House Hotel.  Sweeney's is hard to beat for homespun luxury. It is run with modest flair by the Higgins family who see to it that there is always a turf fire smoldering in the grates, and that guests who sleep beyond 11 in the morning still get a hearty breakfast. Plump, frumpy chairs and piles of worn books and magazines invite sheer idleness, and an elevator wheezes at a snail's pace up the two flights to the top floor. Our room was there, at the side of the house and within earshot of the river. The beds were covered with brightly colored, locally woven wool blankets, the eiderdowns were slumberously heavy, the linen worn soft. The bath water is tinted brown from the fronds of mossy turf that flow through the river. It is soft and clean, but there is still a temptation, as one lies in the bath, to feel like a scarab waiting for the amber to set. 1 2 3 NEXT PAGE > 
