19810810
On the one hand, there is Wesley Walker and his career average of 23 yards a reception. On the other hand there is Bobby Jones, the former auto mechanic who once answered, ''Texaco Tech,'' when the Jets asked what college he attended.  Both are wide receivers for the Jets. Walker, an all-pro and a second-round draft choice in 1977, is relatively wealthy; Jones? He finally is doing better than he was fixing cars at home in Brookfield, Ohio at Toby Gibson's auto body shop. Walker went to the right school - the University of California. Jones starred at Brookfield High.  But there is another difference: Jones has been performing lately and Walker has not. The strange series of injuries that marked Walker's 1980 season has started early this year. This time it is the Achilles tendon.  Walker always has Bobby Jones behind him. Just the other night in an exhibition at Denver, Jones was the best receiver in the game, which the Jets won, 33-7. He led all players with five receptions covering 60 yards. The passes were caught in traffic, or off balance, or while running out of bounds. But they were caught.  But if Walker can return to practice today, as Coach Walt Michaels expects, then Jones will again become No. 2 on the depth chart. Doesn't Fight the System  Last season Jones also started when Walker was out with ailments that included a neck injury, a serious thigh bruise, torn webbing between the fingers and a reinjured thigh.  But that situation bothered Jones because he still was regarded as a second-stringer. Now, he says, he understands that designation. ''When Wesley's right, he's just great,'' Jones says. ''You can't take anything away from him. That's just the way the system is.'' It is a system that he doesn't fight anymore. ''I don't want to get caught in an attitude situation like I did last year when I felt sorry for myself,'' he says. ''I don't want it to hurt me.''  Jones says he was distressed that he was not being paid enough and worried about how Michaels regarded him and if the Jets really thought enough of him to pay him a big-league salary.  ''The biggest thing about Bobby,'' Michaels says now, ''is that he came back this year. He came back with speed and he's in shape. This year he's more confident.''  Speaking of Jones's receptions against Denver, Michaels, who is usually low-keyed, said, ''They were great catches, really.'' But Walker is still No. 1 for Michaels. Although he often becomes perturbed at the possibility of someone exaggerating an injury, he has given no indication of such feelings about Walker.  ''I don't think so,'' Michaels says, when he is asked if he is concerned about Walker. Still, he left him home when the Jets went to Denver.  ''It's more - what's the word? -preventative,'' Michaels said. Playing in the Shadows  Jones works hard, but there are some rewards. There are, he says, ''people who hang around practice and call my name. They know how I got here.''  He and Derrick Gaffney, who backs up Johnny (Lam) Jones at the other wide receiver's spot, are in long shadows. ''We talk about it a lot,'' Jones said. ''It would be easy to let everything go. We just take advantage of it when we're in.'' Gaffney, at least, has experienced this situation. He played at Florida with Wes Chandler, now the New Orleans Saints' star. ''I considered Wes a better open-field runner, but I was a better receiver,'' Gaffney says. Gaffney did not take the next step of saying this is a similar situation between himself and Lam Jones, but others have. Lam Jones can be spectacular in the open; Gaffney is sure-handed.  ''People keep speculating,'' Gaffney says, ''that it will be Lam Jones and Wesley Walker as the starters. But I've got goals. I want to be an all-pro, and you can't be all-pro from the bench.''  Perhaps Bobby Jones's goals are more modest. He knows he will be available. ''Nothing,'' says Bobby Jones, ''has ever kept me from playing.'' 
