19820809
MONTICELLO, N.Y.— Rumors of a big strike of uranium ore began spreading through the Catskills early last year, intensifying by spring when land agents at the Sullivan County Courthouse here found that Isadore Gibber had leased the uranium rights on his 164-acre egg farm to a big minerals company.  The company later abandoned its hunt for uranium, but the existence of that one lease continues to stir an environmental backlash that has fanned out as far as New York and Philadelphia.  Environmental action groups have held rallies to express their alarm. Several thousand people have signed protest petitions. A local resolution has been enacted to ban uranium mining. Fears have been expressed that the watersheds of New York City and Philadelphia might face contamination by radioactive debris.  But geologists familiar with the Catskills say uranium mining is not a real possibility. ''There has never been any uranium mining in New York State, and there never will be any - the issue is that simple,'' said Dr. Gerald M. Friedman, professor of geology at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy. Dr. Friedman was hired by the old Atomic Energy Commission in 1970 to look for uranium in the Catskills.  There are small amounts of uranium in rocks in the Catskills, he said, as there are small amounts of such other heavy metals as copper, lead and zinc.  ''But the amounts are very small -on an order averaging 58 parts of uranium ore per million parts of rock,'' he said. ''This is trivial and would cost many more times to refine than the ore is worth.''  The New York Coalition Against Uranium Mining, whose sponsors include the Friends of the Earth, the Columbia Lawyers Guild and Physicians for Social Responsibility, was formed as part of the protest in Sullivan County. It supplied witnesses for hearings conducted by the New York City Council's Committee on Environmental Protection. The panel looked into the potential for contamination of the city's water supply.  Councilman Arthur J. Katzman, the Queens Democrat who heads the committee, has introduced a resolution calling on the State Legislature to ban any uranium exploration and mining.  ''This whole uranium mining issue really got out of hand,'' said Brian Ingber, chairman of the Sullivan County Board of Supervisors. ''The issue was brought up locally by a small group of flag-waving antinuclear people just after the Three Mile Island accident, the Love Canal mess and the scares about the nuclear arms race. Damage to the environment is a very popular cause these days.''  Under prodding by a local organization called Sullivan Nuclear Opponents, the Board of Supervisors last May unanimously adopted a resolution forbidding the exploration for or mining of uranium.  ''On reflection, this issue does seem to have an 'Alice in Wonderland' quality about it,'' said William C. Rosen, the County Attorney here. ''We took the word of a group of people who are concerned with nuclear affairs, and it was hard to vote no in the face of that emotion. We never talked to any geologists.''  Dr. Friedman and an associate, John H. Way Jr., published the findings of their four-year search in a geological journal two years ago, but their paper went unnoticed. So did the publication of similar surveys conducted for the Department of Energy by geologists at Pennsylvania State University and the Bendix Field Engineering Corporation, an exploration company.  Dr. A.T. Rose, a professor of geology at Penn State, said his survey had found ''no indication of economic deposits -the amount of uranium in the Catskills is very small.'' Bendix said its survey had turned up similar findings.  Despite repeated suggestions by residents that many uranium-rights leases have been taken, a search of land records in the Sullivan County Courthouse shows only Mr. Gibber's.  Charles Houston, a spokesman for the Gulf Mineral Resources Company, a Gulf Oil Corporation subsidiary that holds the Gibber lease, said its hunt for uranium ended last October. Mr. Gibber continues to get $164 a year in royalties for his lease.  ''We let go 10 of the 12 geologists working on uranium exploration and have no plans to either lease or explore further in the Catskills,'' Mr. Houston said.  He said the price of uranium ore had fallen drastically in recent years and had led to the closing of uranium mines in the Rocky Mountains.  ''I had farmers tell me that there was a uranium boom just around the corner here,'' said L.L. Burkett, a land agent for the Atlantic Richfield Corporation, which is exploring the area for oil and gas. ''They went sort of crazy here.''  Atlantic Richfield and Gulf Oil have obtained leases to the oil and gas rights on several hundred thousand acres in Orange, Ulster, Delaware and Sullivan Counties.  ''The people here saw these huge trucks going by, packed with electronic exploration equipment, and concluded that the hunt for oil had ended and the uranium boom was on the way,'' said Gary Packer, a local surveyor.  ''The reason this got twisted was the desperation of a lot of people around here,'' he went on. ''The recession has hit the Catskills so hard that people are willing to grasp at any news to cheer them up.''  One of the founders of Sullivan Nuclear Opponents said harsh times were reason enough for environmental concerns. ''Tourism is about the only industry we have, and if uranium mining would disturb that, the local economy would be in danger of collapse,'' said Glenn Pontier of Narrowsburg, a founder of the antinuclear group.  Mr. Pontier, who runs The River Reporter, a weekly newpaper, said the group, which has about 25 active members, had been formed ''to deal with the ramifications of nuclear power in Sullivan County.'' Mr. Pontier said he believed mining was a dead issue here now ''because the hotels would never let it happen.''  Illustrations: photo of Gibber's egg farm 
