19820717
CBS has dropped a formula that had been used by its executives for five years to evaluate ideas for television films. The action came after details about the formula had come to the attention of some producers and agents in Hollywood.  Called TAPE (for television audience program evaluation), the formula caused concern not only among the producers and agents, but also among top executives at CBS, in part because its criteria of evaluation included the race and ethnic origin of principal characters in a film.  The formula, devised by a British concern called TAPE (Consultancy) Ltd., employs a detailed list of factors by which one-paragraph descriptions of ideas for television movies are judged.  For example, in considering the race and occupation of the protagonist, Oriental is considered bad but white Anglo-Saxon Protestant is good. Blue collar is good whereas serious composer is bad. A drama set on a fantasy island is good but one situated in Britain is bad. Education of Executives  These factors have been derived by TAPE over a number of years through analysis of films that have been successful in the audience ratings.  A number of these factors are described in a 12-page memo written two months ago to educate new program executives in charge of television movies at CBS.  A copy of this memo was obtained by The New York Times and subsequently confirmed by David Poltrack, vice president for research at CBS. Among other things, the memo stated that the weight given a movie idea would be ''reduced if any of the central characters are other than white American.''  Explaining the cancellation of the service, David Fuchs, vice president and assistant to the president of the CBS Broadcast Group, said he feared that the formula ''is so subject to misinterpretation by outsiders as well as users that we should not be involved.''  Another factor, he said, was that the formula's ''definition of people by category - occupation, ethnic group, and sex - bothered me.'' Predicting the Ratings  TAPE is one of a number of research techniques used by the commercial television networks to help predict the ratings success of programs. Since the early 1970's, ABC, CBS, and NBC have been routinely testing film concepts.  Both ABC and NBC elicit reactions to film ideas from viewers selected at random by telephone or gathered together in shopping malls. Neither ABC nor NBC has ever used TAPE.  For the coming season, the TAPE formula was applied to several hundred movie ideas, according to Mr. Poltrack. The approach relies on a team of three trained analysts in London who translate their evaluations into an overall score.  ''If the score is over 100, the film has a greater probability of doing well in the ratings than one under 100,'' said Mr. Poltrack. 'Little Guy' Gets Preference  A film's central character scores highest in the formula if he is a ''little guy'' fighting the system. One of the least desirable protagonists, according to the memo, is ''someone with a superior intellect who can outwit somebody without even soiling his hands.''  Regarding the memo's treatment of race, Mr. Poltrack explained, ''If you have a single lead, a white Anglo-Saxon male would probably relate to more people than anyone else.''  According to the memo, characters from foreign countries are the least desirable, and the most desirable ethnic characters are American blacks, Mexicans, Jews or Italians.  There are also 17 categories of program type, listed in order of appeal. A war film set during World War II is at the top of the list. The other most desirable types include action adventures based on thrilling yarns.  One example of a desirable action thriller described in the memo was ''a plain girl who has plastic surgery and then sets out to kill all the men who ever rebuffed her.'' Bottom of the List  Program types at the bottom of the list include musicals, science fiction, and, said Mr. Poltrack, ''stories about classical composers and people in the arts that are not of much interest to people.''  Arthur Axelman, a vice president of the William Morris Agency, said that when the memo on the formula was written two months ago CBS executives began to counsel television movie producers on ''what was important and what to stay away from.''  In the last month, some producers and agents obtained the memo from programming officials at CBS and complained to CBS executives. ''There has been concern expressed that this is going to be the basis for their choice of movies that will be developed,'' said Mr. Axelman, who received the memo. Biggest Producer of Films  The use of research by CBS in Hollywood is especially significant because that network presents more films made for television than NBC and ABC combined - with 60 expected for the coming season.  There has been considerable debate in recent years about the extent to which research influences programming decisions. Network executives insist it is just one part of the selection process, but many producers and writers disagree.  ''Research has a tremendous input,'' said one veteran producer who requested anonymity. ''At CBS they have moved back more toward research in the last couple of years than in the late seventies. It is much more mechanical now.'' Making the Final Decision  Harvey Shephard, vice president of CBS Entertainment, said that in making the final decision about whether to produce a movie, ''TAPE is one measure, but ultimately it is our own choice involving such variables as whether the theme is familiar or if there is a piece of casting that will distinguish the movie.''  Thomas J. McManus, North American representative for TAPE, called the CBS concern about ethnic and racial categories ''a gross misinterpretation of what is being done.''  Mr. Fuchs, of the CBS Broadcast Group, added that the prospect of publicity about the service ''had something to do with the cancellation. It would be very difficult to explain,'' he said.  Mr. McManus characterized CBS's cancellation as ''precipitous.'' He said: ''We think we have been killed on the basis of inadequate investigation. Nobody in our company was talked to.''  The TAPE contract with CBS expires in January, and Mr. McManus said that as recently as two weeks ago he was told by Arnold Becker, vice president of national television research at CBS in Hollywood, that ''there were good prospects'' for contract renewal. Mr. Becker was on vacation and unavailable for comment. 
