19820523
DAVID L. SHIREY is chairman of the newly instituted graduate program at the School of Visual Arts and visiting professor of art at Hunter College. By DAVID L.SHIREY  T ravelers to Italy, whether they are on a quick tour of such big cities as Rome and Florence, or meandering at leisure in the countryside, will soon find themselves on the traces of the Etruscans.  Now, it has long been traditional to make a bigger fuss over Greek and Roman art than over Etruscan art. Greek achievements have been extolled for their nobility and harmony, Roman for their grandeur and force. Yet Etruscan art is immensely likable; it is personable, humanly affecting and comfortable to live with over a period of time.  Etruscan art, despite its frequent lack of technical prowess and grace, is vibrant. It is marked by a spontaneous vitality and love of life that sets it off from some Greek and much Roman art. It possesses an engaging innocence, bordering on wide-eyed wonderment, and mischievous humor that still exerts a direct appeal. Its expressive distortions, moreover, invest it with a modern emotional and spiritual currency.  Etruscan vitality is most clearly manifest in funerary art, most notably in the wall paintings of tombs. There are some superbly lively paintings in the Tomb of the Monkeys in Chiusi, but the very best come from Tarquinia. In the Tomb of the Leopards, for example - it is named after two beasts prominent in the painting - the walls are covered with a dynamic array of plants and animals and portraits of musicians who seem as spirited as any music-makers in a parade on Fifth Avenue.  Then there is the Tomb of the Omens, on whose walls two burly wrestlers set to with all the derring-do of a match in Madison Square Garden, and the Tomb of the Banquet, in which dancers cavort with the verve of Isadora Duncan and her troupe. The Tomb of Hunting and Fishing is decorated with scenes in which birds and fish frolic before a canoeful of boys. In Etruscan art, the world of death looks like a lot of fun.  Indeed, the afterlife seems to have been a festive occasion as far as the Etruscans were concerned. They certainly wanted their underworld to have as much merriment as this world, and even more. And everyone was able to share in the merrymaking, even slaves and women, who were not so privileged in Roman and Greek art - if they weren't altogether omitted.  Etruscan tombs leave their marks on the landscape not only at Chiusi and Tarquinia but in such other places as Quinto Fiorentino, Fiesole, Cortona, Volterra, Veii, Vulci and Cerveteri. Stroll through any Etruscan necropolis, and you will find the cone-shaped, grass-covered mounds, the hollows in the hillsides.  Different types of tombs exist in different places, for there seem to have been as many ways of building tombs as there are dialects in Italy today. All over Tuscany, for example, one can see chamber tombs with stepped vaults, flat roofs and a varying number of rooms and antechambers. There are also trench-type tombs, tombs hewn from the rocks and tombs built like houses. And there are variations on all of these, as well as still other types: At the ancient site of Populonia, there is a rather grand temple-like tomb on top of the ground; at San Serbone, the mounds of circular graves, like those at Cerveteri near Rome, can be seen; in Volterra, remnants of collapsed graves can be observed in the side of a cliff, near a monastery.  The tombs have survived largely because they were built of stone - other religious and secular buildings that were made of such perishable materials as wood and terra cotta have disappeared. A few other Etruscan works - those that were not destroyed by the Romans and subsequent peoples - are also to be found in the towns and countryside. In Volterra, for example, the entrance to the city is an Etruscan gate constructed of large stones, proportioned nicely to human scale. In Cortona, one can see the Etruscan walls, simple and straightforward; in Fiesole, near Florence, there is an Etruscan temple of some note.  Museums also hold their share of outstanding Etruscan art. Two exceptional tombs, for example, have been reconstructed faithfully, piece by piece, in the Archeological Museum in Florence. One, a circular grave supported by a pillar, is from Casale Marittimo near Volterra; the other, the memorial of a family named Atian, with a host of family sarcophagi, is from Volterra itself.  Among the museum's holdings in Etruscan sculpture, there is a notable figure of an old man who seems not the least disheartened over his death. He lies in a recumbent position, his stomach protruding with the swell of banquet food and a faint smile of satisfaction on his strongly characterized face. A bronze statuette of a warrior suggests Giacometti in its expressively long limbs and attenuated torso, while the celebrated bronze Chimera - a mythical beast with the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent - is a ferocious presence, quick with life. (The equally famous life-size bronze statue called ''The Orator,'' however, betrays a strong Roman influence, and is more staid and less dynamic than much of the purer Etruscan work.)  Another treasure trove is the museum in Chiusi, a major center in Etruscan times. The objects in this little museum could by themselves illustrate a textbook for a concise course in Etruscan art. The small neo-Classical building is abrim with marvels, from incised mirrors and bronze statuettes to pottery - especially the black ceramics called buccheri. The most extraordinary pieces, though, are the funerary urns, among them a 7th-century example decorated with the head of a young man. The face is imbued with a strong personality and sensual richness. It is an eloquent affirmation of the compelling art of portraiture.  Illustrations: Photo of bronze chimera Photo of figure Photo of a bronze warrior (page 36) 
