19810813
The Rev. Lawrence L. Durgin, vice president for development at Tougaloo College in Mississippi and pastor emeritus of the Broadway Church of Christ in New York City, died Tuesday at Hines General Hospital in Jackson, Miss., after a long illness. He was 63 years old and lived in Tougaloo.  As pastor from 1961 to 1980 of the Broadway Church of Christ - situated first at Broadway and 56th Street and later at Ninth Avenue and 61st Street -Mr. Durgin combined his ministerial calling with an activist role in urban and social issues.  Among his special interests was penal reform, and he organized bus transportation to enable families of inmates to visit relatives in prisons throughout New York State. In another area, he helped rally a coalition of Jews and Christians in support of the effort by the United Farm Workers to get collective-bargaining rights. 'Dedicated to Racial Equality'  On learning of Mr. Durgin's death, the Rev. Dr. Avery D. Post, president of the United Church of Christ, said: ''Larry Durgin was one of the most dedicated leaders of the urban church of the past quarter-century. He was equally dedicated to racial equality. He made of Broadway United Church of Christ a center for the improvement of the neighborhoods of central Manhattan. His deep commitment to prisoners and their families was an inspiring response to the teaching of Jesus: 'When I was in prison, you visited me.' ''  Mr. Durgin was one of the founders of the Clinton Housing Association, which spurred efforts to improve housing and living conditions on the West Side of Manhattan. He was also an architect of the former Association for Christian Mission, an ecumenical organization founded in 1968 to mount a drive against poverty and other social problems in New York City.  Mr. Durgin served in many denominational and ecumenical posts. He was a member of the board of directors of the United Church's board for homeland ministries, past president of the Manhattan division of the Protestant Council of Churches of the City of New York, and, in 1970-71, moderator of the Metropolitan Association of the United Church of Christ. Served on College Board  He had been a member of the board of trustees of Tougaloo College, a predominantly black, church-affiliated liberal arts college, for 25 years before he became vice president for development in June 1980.  He had previously served as pastor of Central Congregational Church in Providence, R.I.; the First Congregational Church in Norwich, N.Y., and the Orient Congregational Church in Orient Point, L.I.  Mr. Durgin was born in Newark, but was raised in Japan, where his father was secretary of the Y.M.C.A. He graduated from Dartmouth College with a B.A. degree in 1940 and received a Bachelor of Divinity degree from Oberlin Graduate School of Theology in 1944.  Mr. Durgin is survived by his wife, the former Eunice King; a daughter, Katherine of San Francisco; a son, Wentworth of New York City; a sister, Helen Miller of Redding, Calif., and a brother, Russell of Deerfield, Mass.  A funeral service will be held Saturday at noon in the Tougaloo College chapel.  Illustrations: Photo of Rev. Lawrence L. Durgin 
