19811009
WASHINGTON, Oct. 8— This much is known so far about Sandra Day O'- Connor: She is cool under pressure; she suffers fools gracefully; she has a sense of humor.  So far, this much can be predicted: She will need her sense of humor. The words ''first woman Justice'' are already cemented as firmly to her name as ''reclusive billionaire'' and ''fugitive financier'' were to the names of Howard R. Hughes and Robert L. Vesco.  Ordinarily articulate people seem to be rendered silly by the linguistic implications of a woman's arrival at the Supreme Court.Since ''the brethren'' is now obsolete as a collective noun, what to do? ''Eight brethren and a cistern,'' was the suggestion offered, publicly, by a speaker who introduced Justice O'Connor the other night at the Washington Press Club.  If Justice O'Connor read her press clippings after the Court's opening session this week, a random sample of news accounts would have told her that she arrived on the bench ' 'dressed in a black, knee-length judicial gown,'' that she was ''l ooking small but undaunted behind the long, low bench,'' that she put on a pair of glasses, and that she asked her first questio n 48 minutes into the opening argument ''to show she was there to t ake a full part in the Court's work.'' A Memory of Samuel Johnson  As the press clippings indicate, the tone of the welcome that Justice O'Connor has received in Washington has been more than a little reminiscent of Samuel Johnson's remark 218 years ago about the similarity between a ''woman's preaching'' and a dog walking on its hind legs: ''It is not done well, but you are surprised to find it done at all.''  If much of this - including Chief Justice Warren E. Burger's comment to photographers on the day of Justice O'Connor's swearing in that ''you've never seen me with a better looking Justice'' - is understandable, even harmless, it is also telling.  Whatever Justice O'Connor's substantive work on the Court proves to be, she came to the Court as a symbol of the changing role of women and she will continue to be a symbol. The response to her is symbolic as well - of the other side of the same story. It serves as a reminder that, despite the progress that the nomination of a woman to the Supreme Court represents, Samuel Johnson's attitude is not completely in eclipse.  For her part, Justice O'Connor has managed to shrug off the more overt foolishness, although she gives every indication of paying close attention to what is said and written about her. She apologized for a late arrival at one gathering last week with the comment that she had been busy ''filming next week's edition of 'What's My Line.' '' The Jellybean Issue  Her humor tends toward the deadpan, so much so that it can easily escape notice. At the Senate Judiciary Committee hearings that preceded her confirmation, one Republican Senator, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, tried in a long series of questions to get Mrs. O'Connor to disclose what she and President Reagan had said to one another in their private conversations. She refused to say.  The next questioner, Senator Howell Heflin, Democrat of Alabama, was clearly exasperated with Senator Grassley and mocked him by asking Mrs. O'Connor: ''Did the President offer you a jellybean?''  In the same even tone with which she had answered every question, trivial and profound, the nominee replied: ''Senator, in the Oval Office I was seated next to the jellybeans. But I confess I was more interested in what was being said.''  The comment most frequently heard from people who have watched Justice O'Connor make her early way i n Washington is ''good politician.'' As a former State Senate majority leader, she is certainly a p racticed politician and at 51 years old, with a history of active com munity involvement in Phoenix, she shows little indication of wanting to retreat to the cloister that the Supreme Court has bec ome for many of her colleagues and predecessors. She haseven expresse d the view that visibility and public attention are goodfor the Court as an institution, a belief sharply at variance with the prevailin g view among the brethren.  In fact, of the ways in which Sandra O'Connor is different from the other Justices, her political savvy, relative youth, and continued openness to the world at large are at least as significant as gender. Sex may turn out to be the least important difference of all.  Illustrations: photo of Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor 
