19880103
 Asia: Trade and Tyranny in the Balance in 1988   By By Claudia Rosett, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 4, 1988  Here's a look at the tea leaves for Asia in 1988: Rollback of Communism: Asians could become the first people anywhere to burst the chains of Marxism-Leninism. In Afghanistan the Brezhnev doctrine of Soviet expansion is under siege, as news of the battle around the Soviet-occupied city of Khost reminds us. Supplied with American Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, the Afghan resistance might yet hand Mikhail Gorbachev a defeat.  In China, communism remains under assault on the economic front. Incomplete reform has produced a system that is part free-for-all, part neolithic central planning. The question now is which way the balance will tip. This depends partly on how well the new general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party, Zhao Ziyang, can play the reformer's role in which he was cast in October at the party's 13th congress. The government has yet to produce a system of law, pull its meddling hand out of the country's urban industrial sector, allow free capital markets, or permit anything approaching the freedom to speak out, change jobs at will or vote. But private enterprise has been reviving the countryside since the start of this decade. Some small private businesses are now thriving in the cities. With Adam Smith on university bookshelves and Mao Tse-tung buttons rusting in souvenir shops, there's no doubt that China today is far ahead of Mr. Gorbachev's perestroika.  In Asia's darkest communist enclave, Vietnam, there is unfortunately no hint that communism might soon be routed. Nor is there reason to expect much progress from the coming talks between the Cambodian resistance leader, Prince Norodom Sihanouk, and Vietnam's puppet-government in Phnom Penh. The Vietnamese communists are by now widely recognized in Asia as the region's premier example of how not to run a country (North Korea's Kim Il-Sung is the maverick contender). And Ho Chi Minh's heirs have been forced to concede their failures, starting with their inability even to feed their own people. Encouraged by the Western welcome of Mr. Gorbachev's glasnost, Hanoi will no doubt go on making noises about its desire for comradeship -- and hard cash -- from its old capitalist enemies. Both cash-rich Japan and the increasingly affable U.S. would be well-advised to view Vietnam's promises skeptically.   
