19811207
Ask a group of knowledgeable experts to name the world's best player of the 1970's and you would generate a fierce discussion with many names in nomination. But ask for the world's best partnership and there would be a clear consensus in favor of the Dallas experts, Bob Wolff and Bob Hamman.  As the spearhead of the Aces team, founded in 1968 by Ira Corn Jr., a Dallas financier, they won three world team titles, one world pairs title and . a string of national titles. Hamman is the highest American in world master-point rankings, and may some day overtake the front-running Italians, Giorgio Belladonna and Benito Garozzo.  In a recent championship, Hamman and Wolff sat West and East respectively, defending three no-trump after routine bidding. West led the heart five, and South rightly rejected the finesse. To play low from dummy risked immediate defeat if East could win the queen and shift to spades. There was an excellent chance to collect seven tricks in the minor suits, perhaps without losing the lead. South Takes Heart King  So South took the heart king and led the club jack for a finesse. If East had held the king, South would have had eight tricks with many chances for a ninth. But West produced the king and continued with hearts.  Now South was at the crossroads. He should perhaps have finessed, since it was highly likely that West held the heart queen. And even if East held that card, the odds were against the defense being able to run spades: East was marked with spade length, so he was likely to have the jack of that suit.  But South could not bear the thought of going down in a game in which the tricks were virtually there for the taking. So he won with the heart ace, took two club winners in his hand, and hoped to score four diamond tricks. He could guard against a four-one break, but had to guess which defender was likely to have four.  He misguessed by playing the ace and leading to the queen in dummy. He felt sick when East showed out, and was now in this position: NORTH S 5 2 H 4 D 7 4 C 10 WEST EAST S A J S K 9 8 7 4 H Q 9 H 8 D J 8 D - C - C - SOUTH S Q 10 6 H J D K 10 C -  On the club ten, South threw the heart jack and West the heart queen. A spade was led to the ten, threatening to end-play West. But Hamman alertly won with the ace instead of the jack and led the heart nine to squeeze South. When he gave up the diamond ten, he was thrown in with a diamond and forced to lose the last two tricks. In the post-mortem, the defenders noted that South could have survived after misguessing the diamonds, but he would have had to read the position exactly. After cashing the club ten, he would have had to duck a spade completely. Then he would be able to lead the spade queen at the 12th trick to pin the jack. NORTH S 5 2 H A K 4 D Q 7 4 3 C J 10 7 2 WEST EAST S A J S K 9 8 7 4 3 H Q 9 7 5 H 8 3 2 D J 8 6 2 D 5 C K 8 5 C 9 6 4 SOUTH (D) S Q 10 6 H J 10 6 D A K 10 9 C A Q 3 Both sides were vulnerable. The bidding: South West North East 1 N.T. Pass 3 N.T. Pass Pass Pass  West led the heart five. 
