20060309
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; TV Review: High Note; In Return to HBO, 'Sopranos' Brings New Power to Final Movements   By Rabinowitz, Dorothy, The Wall Street Journal,  Mar 10, 2006  It was bound to end strangely, all that sushi business, and it does, though such a description hardly does justice to the momentous turn the episode takes. Still there are portents of things to come long before. Even in the first half hour studded with restaurant scenes, delicate turf conferences, the introduction of a spectacular new theme -- a mob soldier and his wife desperate to be allowed to take off for Florida to live a regular life -- it's already obvious that "The Sopranos" isn't intending to march through its final seasons to a reliably familiar tune. Episode one fairly oozes large creative ambitions. Long before the end of the next three hours, it's equally clear that those ambitions are on track to a brilliant success. This season's "Sopranos" is quite simply dazzling in its inventiveness, its reach, and one other aspect -- its capacity to pound audiences emotionally as the series has never before done.  Creator David Chase and company have in addition seasoned this nervily unprecedented "Sopranos" with a couple of story lines updated from seasons past. Here again (in an early episode) is Christopher, driven by the old hunger to become a filmmaker. No more hopeful, heartbreaking efforts at writing on his own, though. A Soprano captain now, he has the power to extort the services of a deadbeat with scriptwriting credentials for his film idea about a mob wiseguy returned from the dead, all reassembled, somehow, after being cut up and disposed of. An ensuing story meeting sparkles with a kind of satire not on display since the earliest "Sopranos" seasons, as the scriptwriter and Christopher lay the plot out to friends and backers -- mob associates all, who raise authenticity problems. Nobody knows better than they, after all, about the rules for disposing of body parts. "If they jointed him," one informs the dazed scriptwriter, the pieces aren't going to end up in the same dump.   
