20010211
 E-Commerce (A Special Report): Essay --- Collect --- The Collector: For a lover of junk, the Internet makes it all possible   By By Jason Fry, The Wall Street Journal,  Feb 12, 2001  What eBay does is smooth out person-to-person e-commerce's rough edges by automating the difficult recordkeeping demanded by online auctions and providing an easier way to check up on someone. Buyers and sellers both register, supplying e-mail addresses and phone numbers that other registered users can see. Each user starts with a feedback rating of zero. Then, after each auction is concluded, the buyer and the seller can rate their experience as positive, neutral or negative, with each comment adding or subtracting a point from their overall rating. (A single user can only move your rating up or down a single point, however, no matter how many deals you make with them.)  The result of all this is instant reassurance. After a few weeks on eBay, I realized how many deals it takes to achieve even a fairly modest feedback rating. The chances are pretty low that a seller with a rating of, say, 25 (low for eBay) would take part in 25 honest deals just for the chance to snare an unwary person on the 26th. I also came to see how hard it would be to "game the system" by registering time and time again and faking feedback in an effort to drive your own rating higher. While such chicanery is theoretically possible, any halfway-experienced user would see through it. It's much simpler just to be honest.  That chore, I'm happy to report, is now largely a thing of the past. The past couple of years have seen the rise of two popular services that let people pay each other via credit card. My favorite is PayPal, of Palo Alto, Calif. PayPal is extremely simple: Give the service your credit-card number (or set up a link to your checking account) and you can automatically send money to anyone with an e-mail address (even if they aren't a registered PayPal user). EBayers are a big part of PayPal's user base, and so the service offers such handy timesavers as remembering your shipping address and taking eBay auction IDs on their payment forms.   
