19820130
WASHINGTON, Jan. 29— Manya Nagelstzajn ran in one direction; her brother, Chaim, ran in the other. It was 1943 and a Gestapo squad had suddenly burst onto the streets of the Jewish ghetto of Hrubieszow, Poland.  Today, 39 years later, Manya Nagelstzajn, a survivor of Auschwitz, is flying to England. Her name is Manya Kornblit now and she is traveling to meet the brother who, until this week, she assumed had died in the Nazi Holocaust.  ''I never thought I'd see him again,'' said Mrs. Kornblit, who settled with her husband, also a concentration camp survivor, in Ponca City, Okla.  Mrs. Kornblit, who now wears a Kennedy half-dollar and a Star of David around her neck, gave up her last hopes of finding her brother when she first arrived at Auschwitz in 1944. Another concentration camp prisoner told her that he had been taken away, presumably to his death. Just an Offhand Remark  Like many of the events that determined who would live and who would die in the concentration camps of Hitler's Europe, this impending reunion of brother and sister was a matter of caprice. It began, as did so many reunions in the first days after the end of the war, with an offhand remark made in the company of other survivors.  Early this month Mrs. Kornblit was sitting at a table in Haifa, remembering the war years. She reflected on the fact, as she saw it then, that she was the only one of her immediate family of nine to survive.  Then one of her cousins told her that he had received a letter from her brother in 1945. ''The day t hey opened up the electric fence and let me go out from the camp was the best thing that ever happened to me,'' said Mrs. Kornblit, who is 57 years old. ''Finding out that Chaim was alive wasthe second be st thing.'' Assist From British Embassy  This weekend's reunion took nearly four decades to occur but, once under way, was arranged in less than a week. Within days her son Michael, a television producer here, had gone to the British Embassy and had located Chaim Nagelstzajn, in Newcastle.  She and her brother parted from the rest of their family in October 1942, hiding from the Nazis before being sent, along with thousands of others, on a journey from camp to camp through Europe. When she was told in Auschwitz that her brother had been sent away, she was sure he had perished.  ''I figured he went to the gas chamber or the ovens,'' she said in an interview. ''I was sure he was not alive.'' In truth, her brother had been transferred out of Auschwitz and had moved through a number of camps before being liberated by American troops in Austria.  ''I didn't think anyone survived,'' he said in a telephone interview from England today. ''I knew that my parents, one brother and three sisters, had been shot. I thought the rest had died, too. I thought I was the only one who lived.'' Liberated by Russian Troops  Mrs. Kornblit remained in Auschwitz for six months and then wa s taken to another camp in Czechoslovakia, libe rated by Russian troops in May 1945. Then she returned to Hrubieszow.  ''I was hoping that maybe it was all a bad dream - that everyone would be there, the house, the family, everyone looking through the window waiting for me,'' she said. ''It didn't happen that way. There was no one there.''  She married Meyer Kornblit, her childhood sweetheart, and together they moved to the United States in 1950. Mr. Kornblit worked in a machine shop and a lumber yard before buying his own drive-in restaurant. Eventually he began an independent oil company.  Mrs. Kornblit has had a series of long trans-Atlantic telephone conversations with her brother in the short time since he was located. ''I didn't recognize the voice. It's been so long,'' she said. ''He has a British accent. He sounded so much older. Then I realized that he was older than he used to be.'' Chaim Nagelstzajn is 55 years old.  Her brother, a self-employed builder with four children and four grandchildren, plans a big reunion celebration.  Illustrations: photo of Manya and Meyer Kornblit waiting for flight to England 
