20050913
 Tax Report: IRS Offers Leave-Donation Plan, Other Steps to Aid Storm Victims   By Herman, Tom, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 14, 2005  Separately, the IRS extended several key tax deadlines again. For example, shortly after the hurricane struck, the IRS extended the Sept. 15 deadline for estimated-tax payments until Oct. 17. Now, the IRS says the deadline has been extended to Jan. 3, 2006.  The IRS also says it will team up with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants to offer help to taxpayers at local disaster-recovery centers set up by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. With so many lives disrupted by Hurricane [Katrina], "the ability to expand service by using CPA volunteers should help reduce some of the tax issues victims will face," said IRS Commissioner Mark W. Everson.  BRIEFS: Amid Washington's focus on hurricane recovery efforts, President Bush's advisory panel on federal tax reform won't issue its report by Sept. 30, as had been planned. "We are having ongoing discussions to determine when the panel's final report will be delivered" to Treasury Secretary Snow, says Tara Bradshaw, a panel spokeswoman. "Given that we have to reschedule our public meetings and we are working to accommodate all our panel members' calendars, a delay of at least 30 days is a fair assessment." . . . The IRS Art Advisory Panel, which reviews appraisals of artworks in connection with federal income, estate and gift-tax returns, is scheduled to meet Sept. 21 in Washington.  Separately, the IRS extended several key tax deadlines again. For example, shortly after the hurricane struck, the IRS extended the Sept. 15 deadline for estimated-tax payments until Oct. 17. Now, the IRS says the deadline has been extended to Jan. 3, 2006.  The IRS also says it will team up with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants to offer help to taxpayers at local disaster-recovery centers set up by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. With so many lives disrupted by Hurricane [Katrina], "the ability to expand service by using CPA volunteers should help reduce some of the tax issues victims will face," said IRS Commissioner Mark W. Everson.  BRIEFS: Amid Washington's focus on hurricane recovery efforts, President Bush's advisory panel on federal tax reform won't issue its report by Sept. 30, as had been planned. "We are having ongoing discussions to determine when the panel's final report will be delivered" to Treasury Secretary Snow, says Tara Bradshaw, a panel spokeswoman. "Given that we have to reschedule our public meetings and we are working to accommodate all our panel members' calendars, a delay of at least 30 days is a fair assessment." . . . The IRS Art Advisory Panel, which reviews appraisals of artworks in connection with federal income, estate and gift-tax returns, is scheduled to meet Sept. 21 in Washington.   
