19961121
BOB DOLE is flying right from a Presidential campaign into an advertising campaign.  Two weeks after losing the race for the White House to President Clinton, Mr. Dole is making an appearance in a humorous print advertisement for Air France. The ad, which is scheduled to begin running today in six newspapers around the country, is believed to mark the first time that the Presidential candidate of a major political party has agreed to allow his image to be used for commercial purposes.  So it isn't Air Force One. But it is a sale on a round-trip fare for a weekend in Paris, priced from $299 to $449; restrictions, as usual, apply.  Mr. Dole's $3,000 fee for the ad will be donated, at his request, to a Washington community center for the elderly. A small line of type in the ad notes the donation.  Mr. Dole ''said he didn't want to gain personally from the ad,'' Doug Wurth, general counsel for the Dole campaign -- the Dole Presidential campaign, that is -- said yesterday in a telephone interview from Washington. Mr. Wurth was the intermediary between Mr. Dole and Blum/ Herbstreith, the small New York agency that created the ad as part of its duties as the American shop for Air France.  Mr. Dole joins a small but growing caucus of politicians who have been embraced by Madison Avenue after being rejected by voters.  ''The step from running ads to try to get elected President to being in an ad as an erstwhile Presidential candidate is not a big one anymore,'' said Andy Berlin, chairman and chief executive of Fallon McElligott Berlin in New York, who produced a biographical film of Mr. Dole for the Republican National Convention.  ''It's an expected thing in the church of fame,'' Mr. Berlin added.  The politicians-turned-product-peddler trend may be said to have started in 1975, when William E. Miller, Barry Goldwater's running mate in 1964, asked, ''Do you know me?'' in an American Express spot.  It has accelerated since, with Thomas P. (Tip) O'Neill, for example, hawking several products after serving as House Speaker, even popping out of a suitcase in a commercial for Quality Inns.  Indeed, Pepsico Inc. has taken a particular shine to the genre. In 1985, Geraldine Ferraro, the Democratic candidate for Vice President the previous year, was featured in a spot for Diet Pepsi. Dan Quayle, the former Vice President, appeared in a 1994 television commercial for Wavy Lay's potato chips from the company's Frito-Lay division. And early last year, two former Governors, Mario M. Cuomo of New York and Ann Richards of Texas, pitched another Frito-Lay brand, Doritos.  Mr. Dole ''is going into private life and is entitled to do whatever he wants as long as it's not illegal, immoral or fattening,'' said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, who follows political advertising in her role as dean of the University of Pennsylvania's Annenberg School for Communication.  Politicians as celebrity endorsers has become ''such a pervasive cultural tendency,'' she added, ''if anything, you'd be surprised if it didn't happen'' that a Presidential candidate of either the Republican or Democratic Party would someday join their ranks.  ''Our society blurs together politicians, entertainers and athletes as celebrities all in the public eye,'' said Donny Deutsch, chief executive of Deutsch Inc. in New York, who worked on commercials for the Clinton election campaign in 1992.  ''I think you'll see the emergence of Bob Dole, cult hero,'' Mr. Deutsch said, ''with a certain empathy now he could never get as a politician.''  The Air France ad is based on a comment Mr. Dole made in his concession speech on Nov. 5. ''Tomorrow will be the first time in my life I didn't have anything to do,'' he said.  That inspired Alan Blum, president of Blum/Herbstreith. His idea, he said yesterday, was to center a fare-sale ad on a photograph of a smiling, waving Mr. Dole and a headline as laconic as the man himself: ''Not doing anything?''  Though ''it was just perfect,'' Mr. Blum said, he and executives of Air France were unsure whether Mr. Dole would allow his likeness to be featured in the ad.  ''So we sent it to him,'' Mr. Blum said, ''and he thought it was very amusing. The fact he was so amused was great; he doesn't take himself too seriously.''  Mr. Wurth echoed that sentiment.  ''The Senator is a good-natured, good-humored man,'' Mr. Wurth said. ''He took the ad in good humor.''  ''The public likes to see political figures when they're a little more unrestrained,'' Mr. Wurth added. ''This and the late-night shows are a great way for Bob Dole to introduce himself in a way that perhaps he wasn't able to on the campaign trail.''  That reference was to post-election appearances made by Mr. Dole on ''Late Show With David Letterman'' and ''Saturday Night Live.'' On both, as in the Air France ad, a lighter, self-deprecating side of his personality was evident.  The text of the Air France ad continues the humorous tone of the headline. ''If you have a little time on your hands,'' it asserts, ''there's never been a better reason for a getaway to Paris than our special fare.'' The ad ends by claiming that ''a fare this low might be the best news you've had in a long time.''  The newspapers in which the ad will run are The Chicago Tribune, The Houston Chronicle, The Los Angeles Times, The San Francisco Examiner, The Washington Post and the Northeast editions of The New York Times. $(Page B2.$) Plans call for the ad to appear twice more after today, on Sunday and Tuesday. Air France will spend $336,000 to run the ad, Mr. Blum said.  The community center to which Mr. Dole asked his fee to be donated, Sarah's Circle, provides housing and other programs for the low-income elderly. It is a favorite charity of Mr. Dole and his wife, Elizabeth.  ''Air France, as a gesture of good will, offered the Senator and Mrs. Dole free round-trip tickets to Paris on the Concorde,'' Mr. Wurth said, adding that Mr. Dole asked instead for the donation to Sarah's Circle.  ''He hopes the mention of the donation in the ad will have some spinoff effect,'' Mr. Wurth added, in terms of additional contributions.  Is the Air France ad the beginning of a second career for Mr. Dole as a product pitchman?  ''I don't think he'll be Lee Iacocca selling mini-vans,'' Mr. Wurth said, referring to the former head of the Chrysler Corporation.  ''You can never rule anything out,'' Mr. Wurth added, ''but there's a delicate balancing act. The Senator doesn't want to demean his efforts by overly commercializing them.''  Mr. Dole, along with Mr. Clinton, had appeared in a humorous print ad before the election that encouraged voting, but in that instance neither man had authorized the use of his image. That ad, part of the long-running ''milk mustache'' campaign sponsored by the nation's fluid milk processors, superimposed mock milk mustaches on the upper lips of Mr. Dole and Mr. Clinton. 
