19810901
The lawyer for Con Errico, a former jockey who faces a 10-year prison term for his conviction in a race-fixing scheme, appealed yesterday for reduction of the sentence.  ''This man can't survive a 10-year sentence,'' the lawyer, Gerald Shargel, said in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, as he cited his 59-year-old client's ''substantially deteriorated'' health. Errico, gaunt and wearing a neck brace, sat next to him, facing Judge Jack B. Weinstein. ''He can't survive, even if he's eligible for parole after one-third - three and a third years,'' Mr. Shargel said.  Judge Weinstein, who sentenced Errico after his conviction in May 1980, reserved decision. Earlier, after Errico had walked into the courtroom with an unsteady gait, the judge said, ''He's lost a great deal of the verve and spirit he showed at the trial.''  Judge Weinstein said that a key reason for the sentence was to pressure Errico into cooperating with authorities who seek to prosecute others in the scheme. He said that Errico was withholding the ''medicine to cure'' corruption in racing.  ''He's not looking well, but neither is the industry,'' the judge said. ''He has a chance to cooperate and improve the health of the industry.''  Errico was convicted of racketeering in the fixing of thoroughbred races at Aqueduct and Saratoga in the mid-1970's. Prosecutors for the Justice Department's Organized Crime Strike Force charged that he was the pivotal figure in a group that included bribed jockeys and gamblers.  At the trial, the jockey Jose Amy implicated some of the nation's leading riders and former riders, but Errico is the only one who was indicted.  His term is to begin when he finishes a sentence he is now serving for contempt of court. The contempt term, which he began two months ago in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan, could run until April. It was imposed by Judge Mark A. Costantino of Federal District Court in Brooklyn after Errico had refused to answer questions about race-fixing before a grand jury.  Errico sat silently as Mr. Shargel told of his health problems, saying they involved high blood pressure, a stroke last November and an automobile accident last March that left Errico in constant pain from a damaged vertebra.  Mr. Shargel also called the 10-year term coercive and extraordinarly harsh. He contrasted it to the three-year sentences recently given by another judge in the same court to three United States Representatives convicted of corruption in the Abscam investigation.  Judge Weinstein responded that the Representatives were not in position to give additional information, and Errico was. Neil J. Firetog, the prosecutor, said he was sympathetic to Errico's health problems, but that they were ''treatable'' and that the sentence was ''stern but justified.'' Citing the ''importance and magnitude'' of the scheme, he said, ''We're trying to get to the bottom of this.''  ---- Trainer Suspended  Phil Johnson, a leading thoroughbred trainer, was suspended for 60 days yesterday by the New York State Racing and Wagering Board, after officials found that one of his horses had been drugged at Saratoga.  The board granted Johnson a stay, pending a hearing. The suspension had been scheduled to start Friday and last until Nov. 2. Stewards reported that a metabolite of Propiopromazine, a derivative of a tranquilizer, had been found in Naskra's Breeze, winner of the ninth race at Saratoga Aug. 10.  The trainer, 55 years old, has had 28 stakes victories in New York this season. He has led the trainer standing at Belmont three times and at Aqueduct twice.  Last year his horses won 58 races here, placing him third behind Frank Martin and Gil Puentes. In 1978 and 1979 he saddled the winners of 12 consecutive New York stakes races. 
