19810615
Correction Appended THE power-hitting third baseman had declared himself a free agent. His team demanded compensation. A strike was threatened and the future of the game seemed in doubt. After protracted negotiations, a bargain was forged: The team that had lost its slugger would henceforth get four outs an inning. The game resumed.  Such a plan might not resolve the major league baseball strike, but it worked just fine in Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx on Saturday afternoon. The bargaining was easier there because none of the players had reached his 12th birthday, a yellow tennis ball was substituting for regulation horsehide, and there were only 10 ballplayers and four mitts. This five-on-a-side, three-fouls-you'reout, team-at-bat-supplies-the-catcher game was only one of thousands that proceeded apace throughout New York City this weekend, oblivious to the major league strike.  The third baseman's team pitied rather than resented him for jumping ship: he said his mother was taking him to the dentist.  There seemed to be baseball everywhere in the Bronx this weekend. Someone pitched and someone batted on a patch of dirt in Crotona Park, in a lush meadow near Orchard Beach on Pelham Bay, in a schoolyard on Jerome Avenue under the elevated train tracks at 183d Street.  There was even formal baseball on East 161st Street and River Avenue. About 2,000 spectators were at Yankee Stadium Saturday for ''Amateur Baseball Classic II,'' which consisted of the Public Schools Athletic League and Catholic High Schools Athletic Association championships. The day did not begin well for Bronx loyalists, however. In the P.S.A.L. game, which began at 11 A.M., the local John F. Kennedy High School Knights were trounced by Brooklyn's Abraham Lincoln High School, 10-0.  The Stadium looked as it did during the worst-attended Yankee games in the early 1970's. There was no one in the stands higher up than the box-seat level or farther from home plate than the edge of the dugouts. But the horseshoe of seats around the infield was packed.  Only one refreshment stand was open and the hungry had to wait about 45 minutes for hot dogs, but all seemed in good spirits. Most of the fans were classmates of their schools' ballplayers, and many wore shirts saying ''Lincoln Class of '81'' or ''Kennedy Senior Class.'' Huge portable radios tuned to rhythm-and-blues stations blared out riveting bass lines. Every inning, a zealous rooter or two would climb on top of the dugout to lead a chant, only to have his knee politely tapped by a police officer asking him to move.  Kennedy boosters, many of whom displayed the team's bright red colors in football jerseys, T-shirts and baseball caps, were not given much to cheer or even applaud politely. Carmine Sperto, the Lincoln pitcher, had a no-hitter going until the sixth inning of the eight-inning game. Earlier in the P.S.A.L. playoffs, Sperto had pitched two no-hitters, and the Lincoln fans clapped wildly for a third with each Kennedy out. But in the bottom of the sixth, the Kennedy second baseman, Dwight Colon, dropped a short single in front of the Lincoln left fielder. The Kennedy fans began chanting for a rally, but Sperto did not yield another hit.  When Sperto threw a high fastball to complete his 15th strikeout and end the game, the Lincoln players rushed from their dugout to the pitcher's mound. After a protracted hugging huddle, the team shook hands with the Kennedy players and then posed for photographs with school principals and teachers.  An hour before the end of the game, players and rooters from Nazareth Regional High and Msgr. Scanlon High had begun to sit in the stands, waiting for their C.H.S.A.A. game that followed. Scanlon won, 5-2, earning the right to meet Lincoln on Sunday for the overall city high school championship.  Almost everything about the games was major league. The players threw their helmets to the ground in disgust, kicked the dirt and stared in disbelief at the home-plate umpire after called strikes. But in both games, a gesture was repeated over and over that - if nothing else had - would have convinced an uninformed spectator that he was not watching a professional game.  Every time a foul ball was hit into unoccupied seats, a chase would ensue among the nearest onlookers. The one who came up with the ball would reach back and hold the ball aloft, the way fans at Yankee games do because they know this makes it easier for the television cameras to spot them and give them a few seconds of fame. But high school athletic departments do not have a budget line for equipment lost to souvenir hunters. In Saturday's games, the fans who retrieved baseballs and lifted them over their heads held them there for only a moment. They then threw them back onto the field, where ballboys picked them up and returned them to play.  In an era before every New York Yankee home run was cause for the Stadium scoreboard and the television announcers to declare ''This Bud's for you,'' Yankee telecasts were sponsored by a brewery with a penchant for jingles. Part of the lyrics to one from the late 1960's went, ''Baseball and Ballantine/What a combination/All across the nation.'' 1 2 NEXT PAGE > Correction: June 16, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition An article in SportsMonday yesterday incorrectly reported the winner and the score of the Catholic High Schools Athletic Association's championship baseball game. The winner was Nazareth Regional High School, which defeated Monsignor Scanlon, 6-2. 
