19820318
POLISH PRESS SAYS JOURNALISTS WANT PRO-COMMUNIST UNION  WARSAW, March 17 (Reuters) - The official press gave prominence today to what it described as calls from journalists in Warsaw and Poznan for the creation of a pro-Communist trade union for journalists.  It would replace the Polish Journalists Association, which was suspended under martial law for its support of the independent trade union Solidarity.  The Communist daily Trybuna Ludu said today that a new union should strengthen party control over the press. It accused the suspended association of playing politics and ignoring journalists' needs. Solidarity sources said last week that 513 journalist supporters of the union had lost their jobs and 134 others were on indefinite leave as part of a crackdown by the authorities.  All Are Heavily Censored  The official press agency said 12 Poznan journalists had written to Prime Minister Wojciech Jaruzelski to urge a ''reborn association'' that would acknowledge Communist supremacy. An almost identical letter, the agency said, was sent to Stefan Oszowski, a Politburo member, from 24 employees at Chlopska Droga, a Communist farmers weekly based in Warsaw.  Only Trybuna Ludu and the army daily Zolnierz Wolnosci were published immediately after martial law was imposed Dec. 13. Other newspapers reopened after their staffs were screened. All are heavily censored to reflect the Government line.  The situation is in sharp contrast to the Solidarity period, when Poles had a broader political range of newspapers than has ever been available in the Soviet bloc. These included the weekly Solidarnosc, the Catholic daily Slowo Pozszechne and the Democratic Party daily Kurier Polski.  Dissenting views barred from the official press after the military takeover have re-emerged in greatly reduced volume in the underground press.  Deputy Prime Minister Mieczyslaw Rakowski was quoted as telling reporters on Tueday, ''For Poland there is no more crucial issue than the answer to the question of what the trade unions should be like.'' ---- Solidarity Leader Taken to Court  WARSAW, March 17 (UPI) - Jan Rulewski, a Solidarity leader, was taken in handcuffs today to a courtroom north of here. He flashed a victory sign as he entered the courtroom to face manslaughter charges stemming from a road accident last spring. 
