19820730
An energetic and innovative leader in higher education was elected president of the National Conference of Christians and Jews yesterday. The new president, Jacqueline Grennan Wexler, who was president of Hunter College in New York from 1970 to 1979, succeeds Dr. David Hyatt, who will retire in October after 28 years with the human relations organization.  The conference, established in 1929, is one of the nation's oldest organizations seeking to resolve interreligious and interracial tensions. It has 70 regional offices and is the sponsor of National Brotherhood Week each February.  Local units of the organization conduct human relations seminars involving the police, business executives, labor leaders and members of minority groups. The local offices also help mediate interracial and interreligious disputes. Its headquarters are in Manhattan.  Mrs. Wexler, a 55-year-old woman of considerable charm and diplomatic skills, was rated a ''superb crisis manager'' during her years as president of Hunter College. People close to the conference say her ability as a diplomat and fund raiser are needed to lift spirits within the organization, troubled this year by a controversy surrounding the giving of a humanitarian award to President Reagan.  The dispute arose in February when the conference awarded its Charles Evans Hughes Gold Medal to the President. It came at a time when many were criticizing Mr. Reagan for budget proposals that would cut back social services. A large number of the conference's staff members were sharply critical of the decision, made by Dr. Hyatt and officers of the board of trustees.  Mrs. Wexler, a member of the conference's board, said at the time that she had not taken part in the decision, but, nonetheless, had supported the move. She added in an interview in February, however, ''As a person, I have very strong differences of opinion on some social issues with the President.'' She said there should have been more people involved in the decision.  ''The Reagan dispute obviously caused some wounds,'' Mrs. Wexler said yesterday. She added, however, that she believed the controversy would not have a lasting effect on the group.  The conference, Mrs. Wexler says, needs to continue its ''mediating role'' in society's disputes. Overcoming the tensions caused by the polarization of views about the roles of women and such family issues as child care might be topics of concern to the conference in the future, she said.  Mrs. Wexler's fund-raising abilities will be an asset to the organization. The conference's annual budget of $8.5 million, up from $4 million nine years ago, comes largely from individual and corporate contributions. In recent years, it has had to tap its reserve funds to maintain programs.  Mrs. Wexler, who was a Roman Catholic nun with the Sisters of Loretto from 1949 to 1967, attracted considerable attention during her tenure as president of Webster College in suburban St. Louis. She revitalized the college's teacher-training programs and raised millions of dollars for new buildings and programs.  She said she believed that higher education should not be bound by the restrictions of church dogma and, under her leadership, the Catholic school gained release from ecclesiastical authority.  In 1967, control of the school was turned over to a lay board of trustees. At the same time, she had requested and received dispensation from her vows as a nun. Mrs. Wexler, who is still a practicing Catholic, left as president of Webster in 1969.  She married Paul J. Wexler, a New York businessman, in a Roman Catholic service, with a rabbi providing the final blessing. She and her husband live in Manhattan.  Jean Marie Grennan was born on Aug. 2, 1926, in Sterling, Ill., and took the name Jacqueline to honor her dead brother, Jack, when she entered the Sisters of Loretto. She attended parochial schools and Webster College, graduating in 1948. A year later, she joined the Sisters of Loretto. For eight years, she taught English and mathematics at schools run by her religious order in El Paso and St. Louis, and began teaching at Webster in 1959. She received a master's degree in English from the University of Notre Dame.  Mrs. Wexler was named president of Hunter College in 1970, the first year the school implemented the open-enrollment policy. She is currently president of Academic Consulting Associates, a division of Wells International, a management consultant company.  Illustrations: photo of Jacqueline Grennan Wexler 
