19810320
STAMFORD, Conn., March 18— Mikhail Bulgakov survived both Stalinist suppression and patronage. In his play, ''The Cabal of Hypocrites,'' Bulgakov saw Moliere as an earlier equivalent of himself, as a writer victimized by a ruler, in Moliere's case, by Louis XIV. As translated and adapted by Michael Lessac, the play was presented several seasons ago at the Colonnades Theater Lab under the title ''Moliere in Spite of Himself,'' and proved to be - with certain reservations about the production and the performances - a provocative investigation of the abuses of power. At the same time, the work did not have the richly textured characters of the author's play and novel, ''The White Guard'' or the symbolic complexity of ''The Master and Margarita.''  Mr. Lessac has restaged ''Moliere'' at the Hartman Theater Company, using some of his original actors in an improved cast headed by Richard Kiley in the title role. Despite that fact, the work seems to be in a process of devolution. It is now less a study of artistic suppression than a backstage biographical romance with political overtones.  At the Hartman, the play is no longer credited to Bulgakov, but to Mr. Lessac and David Morgan. In tiny print at the bottom of the title page of the program, we can read that the adaptation is ''based in part'' on Bulgakov's play and also draws upon a number of other sources, including Ariane Mnouchkine's film biography of Moliere. It is one thing to adapt a play, quite another to create an anthology. It would seem that, after his death, Bulgakov is being victimized by writers of lesser (or, if you will, Lessac) talent.  Clearly the aim is to popularize. As Mr. Lessac has said, instead of Bulgakov's ''somewhat depressing fatalism,'' he chose ''to see the shared sexuality and the ironic comedy.'' Bring back fatalism.  One of Moliere's associates acts as narrator, informing us portentously that ''we are at the beginning of a journey unlike any made before,'' and guides us through the life, offering namedropping signposts to his individual plays. Repeatedly, there are scenes of horseplay and hanky-panky, including one graceless moment when Moliere's young wife and an actor tickle and tumble across a harpsichord and into a closet. Moliere's marriage to a woman who may have been his own daughter seems to receive greater stress than the intrigue in court.  The heart of the play is Moliere's relationship with Louis XIV, and it is here where the evening commands our interest. The King, played by Ralph Williams, is a petulant child who seems equally eager to be accepted as an actor and as an autocratic ruler. Moliere, given a suave performance by Mr. Kiley, allows him to cavort in a scene with the company, and Mr. Williams beams with innocent pleasure. The king's retaliatory side is inked with malice. Discovering a man cheating at cards, he toys with him, and then sentences him to the dungeon.  After years of reward in court, Moliere writes ''Tartuffe,'' and because of the viciousness of the satire of religion, he is attacked by a cabal of ''saintly hypocrites.'' Seeking to renew favor with the King, he explains that it is only the Tartuffes of the world that are offended by ''Tartuffe.'' With a careful measure of hypocrisy, he assures Louis that the King is not one of that band. The verbal thrust and parry between the patron and the patronized is swordsharp. Confronting his majesty and directing his actors, Mr. Kiley has an assertive artistic presence. He is somewhat less comfortable in the show's random excerpts from Moliere's plays, and the same thing must be said about his fellow actors. The supporting players strike poses, laugh heartily and hit each other with slapsticks, but do not adequately convey Moliere's effervescent comedy.  Judith Barcroft has a lofty elegance as Moliere's spurned mistress, Jacqueline Cassel is fetching as his wife, Richard Frank is a literate narrator and Tom Tammi, Moliere in the production at the Colonnades, is a suitably haughty archbishop. The play calls for Mr.Kiley to move from manly exuberance to a death scene in performance as a not-so-imaginary invalid. Hair askew and limbs akimbo, he tries to focus his eyes and his mind. Although the moment is reminiscent of his work in ''Man of La Mancha,'' the actor movingly personifies the last stages of misunderstood genius.  ** Abuse of Power MOLIERE IN SPITE OF HIMSELF, by David Morgan and Michael Lessac; directed by Mr. Lessac; scenery design, Robert U. Taylor; lighting design, Roger Morgan; costume design, Dona Granata and Walter Pickette; composition and musical, Michael Jay; production stage manager, Randy Becker. A Colonnades Theater Lab production presented by the Hartman Theater Company, Edwin Sherin, artistic director, and Roger L. Meeker, managing director. At 307 Atlantic Street, Stamford, Conn. Grandfather and Marquis d'Orsigny ...Nesbitt Blaisdell Young Moliere and Milady ..................Marcia Hyde Scaramouche and Louis XIV ..............Ralph Williams Street People .................................Company Jean-Baptiste Poquelin de Moliere .......Richard Kiley Madeleine Bejart ......................Judith Barcroft Armande Bejart de Moliere ...........Jacqueline Cassel Charles Varlet de la Grange .............Richard Frank Mariette Rivale ............................Debra Monk Zacharie Moirron ..........................Norman Snow Jean-Jacques Bouton ...................Charlie Stavola Catherine de Brie .....................Berit Lagerwall Jodolet la Farinier and Hardouin de Perefixe Tom Tammi Cocurucu and Brother Fidelity ..........Brian O'Mallon Mazatan and Marquis de St.-Simon .....Curtis Armstrong Fefee ....................................Fotini Dimou Alizon and Father Barthelmy .............James Maxwell Philippe ...............................Walter Hicklin  Illustrations: Photo of Richard Kiley 
