19820521
WASHINGTON, May 20— Simple wooden accordion gates, which parents have used for decades to separate small children from hazards, pose a danger themselves, the Consumer Product Safety Commission was told today.  After hearing staff members outline the hazard, the commission directed its engineers to work with the manufacturers to resolve the problem.  The agency is also investigating deaths and injuries associated with expandable wooden enclosures, or ''baby corrals,'' made of the same accordion-type wooden slats.  In a briefing today, staff members at the Federal regulatory agency reported that a child could get his head stuck between the slats and strangle.  ''Their supply of air is cut off almost immediately,'' said Douglas Noble, manager of the agency's emerging hazards program. 6 Deaths and 10 Injuries  The agency says it knows of six deaths and 10 injuries, ranging in severity from abrasions to one case of brain damage, that are attributed to the gates. The accidents date from 1976, but most occurred within the last few years. George Rutherford, an injury data analyst, could not estimate how many other deaths might have gone unreported.  The staff said the wooden corrals had been associated with the strangulation of two children and injuries to four others in the same period. John D. Rogers, the agency's project manager, said this toll was more significant since there were only about 158,000 of the corrals in consumers' homes, compared with more than 10 million accordion gates.  A number of problems are associated with the corrals, which are unstable and tend to close up when shaken, the staff said. As the corral shrinks, the V-shaped angles of the slats become sharper.  Mr. Rogers said a child might get his head caught in the V-shaped top of the corral fence when trying to climb out. If he thrashed about or shook the playpen in an effort to free himself, the pen would shrink and put more pressure on his throat, Mr. Rogers said. Angles Pose Greatest Hazard  In general, the sharper the angle of the V, the more dangerous the fence, he said. But some children have strangled in the diamondshaped openings on the side of the gate, he added.  The manufacturers provide stakes to anchor the playpens for outdoor use, but there is no such device for indoor use, where most of the accidents have occurred, Mr. Rogers said.  The commission directed its staff to continue working with the six manufacturers to correct the designs, to work on remedies for existing products and to develop a ''creative'' information and education program to alert parents about the hazard.  The industry has been ''very cooperative'' and has scheduled a meeting with commission engineers next week to discuss the problem, the staff said.  Stuart M. Statler, one of the commissioners, noted that there had been no reports of injuries associated with another type of children's gate, a solid one with a sliding panel of plastic mesh framed in a wooden rectangle. The gate costs a few dollars more but offers extra security, he said. 
