19860817
MIDSUMMER is not only the prime season for tomatoes that are vine-ripened, richly flavored and endowed with smooth, meaty texture, it is also a time when a good tomato is not necessarily red. Yellow tomatoes, lower in acid than their scarlet counterparts, are sold at some farm stands and are also grown by adventurous gardeners. Even green tomatoes, picked unripe for pickling, making into chutney or frying, are available.  Yellll tomatoes could be substituted for red in a spaghetti sauce or a salad and might confuse guests at a dinner party. They can also be used to make a lovely, mellow marmalade, sharpened with citrus flavors, which will dispel winter blahs at breakfast a few months from now.  Along with a recipe for the marmalade, there is one for fried green tomatoes and onions, a sprightly accompaniment for simple grilled meats or fish. And to put ripe red tomatoes to one of their best uses, combine them with the piquant mixture of olives, capers, herbs and garlic to make a puttanesca-style sauce for spaghetti. That sauce, named for Neapolitan ladies of the night, was evidently a quick, nourishing tossing together of ingredients and that is precisely as it should be. It is barely cooked at all. The hot, freshly boiled pasta is added to the skillet of sauce, the ingredients are tossed together, then served. Spaghettini Puttanesca 2 pounds ripe tomatoes (about 6 medium tomatoes) Y cup extra virgin-olive oil #2 cloves garlic, minced #6 flat anchovies, rinsed, drained and chopped #12 Italian or Greek dried black olives, pitted and sliced #1 tablespoon drained capers 1/2 teaspoon oregano #1 tablespoon minced fresh parsley #1 tablespoon red-wine vinegar Salt and freshly ground black pepper #1 pound spaghettini.  1. Peel tomatoes by plunging them into boiling water for about 20 seconds, rinsing them in cold water, then stripping off the skins. Slice the tomatoes in half horizontally and gently squeeze the halves to remove seeds and excess fluid. Core and finely chop the tomatoes, either by hand or in a food processor. If you use the machine, be sure the tomatoes are chopped, not pureed.  2. Transfer the chopped tomatoes to a colander placed over a bowl and allow them to drain for 30 minutes, to further remove excess fluid.  3. Bring a kettle of water to boil for the pasta.  4. Heat two tablespoons of the oil in a large skillet, add the garlic and saute briefly until soft but not brown. Add the anchovies, olives, capers and drained tomatoes and cook for two to three minutes. Away from heat, stir in oregano, parsley, vinegar and the remaining olive oil. Season to taste with salt and pepper and set aside until the pasta is cooked.  5. Boil the spaghettini about six minutes, until al dente. Drain thoroughly.  6. Add spaghettini to the sauce in the skillet and mix over low heat just until the ingredients are well distributed. Serve at once. Alternatively, the spaghettini can be divided among four warm bowls and the sauce spooned over each serving.  Yield: 4 servings Yellow Tomato Marmalade #2 lemons, seeded and chopped, including the skins #1 cup fresh orange juice #2 pounds yellow tomatoes, peeled, seeded and chopped #2 Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored and chopped #2 cups sugar #8 whole allspice.  1. Combine the lemons and orange juice in a blender or food processor and process until the lemon is finely chopped. Transfer to a large, heavy saucepan, bring to a simmer and cook over medium-high heat until the lemon becomes transparent.  2. Add the remaining ingredients and continue to simmer over medium heat until they have thickened, about 30 minutes. Spoon into sterilized eight-ounce jelly jars and seal with paraffin or cover with canning lids and process in a boiling water bath for 10 minutes, then allow to cool, check lids and store in a dark place.  Yield: 7 eight-ounce jars. Fried Green Tomatoes Y cup extra-virgin olive oil #1 cup sliced onion #4 medium green tomatoes Z cup milk Z cup flour Salt and freshly ground black pepper.  1. Heat one tablespoon of the oil in a large skillet. Add the onions and saute over medium heat until they are golden brown and beginning to crisp. Remove the onions from the skillet and drain on absorbent paper.  2. Slice tomatoes horizontally one-half-inch thick. Dip slices in milk, then coat with flour.  3. Heat remaining oil in the skillet, add the tomato slices and saute until golden brown on one side. Turn and saute until golden on the other side, drain briefly, season to taste with salt and pepper then serve sprinkled with fried onions.  Yield: 4 servings.  drawing 
