19990411
 The Dangers of Indicting Milosevic   By By Jeremy Rabkin, The Wall Street Journal,  Apr 12, 1999  Last week the State Department began naming potential Yugoslav defendants in trials for alleged war crimes in Kosovo. Some have suggested indicting President Slobodan Milosevic himself. On the surface, there seems to be a strong case for putting Mr. Milosevic on trial. After all, Britain's House of Lords just affirmed (on the day the bombing started) that Spain could try former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet for bloody abuses committed by his government in Chile a decade earlier.  If the United Nations special war-crimes tribunal does indict Mr. Milosevic, it would be quite a turnaround. The tribunal, located in The Hague, has been in existence since 1993, and has notably failed to indict Mr. Milosevic for atrocities in Bosnia. Perhaps that was because the U.S. and the other powers that pushed for the establishment of this tribunal were too busy negotiating with Mr. Milosevic to worry about bringing him to justice. But while changing direction and indicting Mr. Milosevic might make sense as a short-term tactical move, it might redound against the U.S. down the line.  Nuremberg provides less of a precedent for the Yugoslavia tribunal than we might think. In the first place, the Nuremberg trials were not really international in the contemporary sense. The four Allied powers that organized the tribunal -- the U.S., Britain, France and the Soviet Union -- were the sole legal authorities in Germany. No other countries were invited to contribute judges or prosecutors to assist the tribunal, to help chart its jurisdiction or even to participate in the selection of defendants. After the trial of the first two dozen defendants ended in October 1946, the other powers refused to cooperate in further proceedings. So the U.S. simply conducted other trials of lesser Nazis in its own name, with exclusively American prosecutors and judges, in the same Nuremberg courthouse, which happened to be in the American zone of occupation.   
