20070802
 The Afternoon Report: Hiring Labors Online edition  By Phillips, Matt, The Wall Street Journal,  Aug 3, 2007  Friday morning's payrolls report showed that manufacturing, construction and government job losses in July counteracted relatively healthy numbers from service industries, as job growth slowed and the unemployment rate rose slightly. Nonfarm payrolls rose 92,000 in July, below June's 126,000, and May's 188,000. So far this year, monthly job growth has averaged 136,000. The job gain fell short of the 130,000 new jobs Wall Street's oracles had predicted. Unemployment edged up 0.1 percentage point to 4.6%.  In light of the housing slowdown, some construction jobs were expected to evaporate, and 12,000 of them did, though Morgan Stanley economists, in written commentary, expressed surprise that the bulk of the drop was attributable to nonresidential building. Commercial construction has been a bright spot of late in the industry. Mission Residential Economist Richard Moody wrote that construction payroll numbers are still "very much out of alignment" with data from the housing industry. And he expects that revisions to the payroll data in January 2008 will hammer residential construction job counts back into alignment. In their written comments, some economists also tried to pick apart a 28,000 drop in government jobs, with most coming to the conclusion that the drop concerned mostly state and local education workers. Nomura Chief Economist David Resler noted that the June count for such workers was revised downward too, and pointed to a possible statisitical kink. "Both the June revisions and the July declines in this sector probably reflect imperfections in estimating the appropriate adjustments for 'normal' seasonal variation when the school-year calendar is less uniform and is changing," he wrote.  As Proctor & Gamble's integration of Gillette nears its completion, results from the unit continue to boost the company's bottom line for its fiscal fourth quarter. P&G's blade and razor sales jumped 18% to $1.4 billion on a 6% volume increase. The company's overall profit rose 19% on fatter gross margins. P&G also announced a $30 billion stock-buyback program.   
