19811211
Correction Appended SOFIA, Bulgaria, Dec. 8— At first glance, Sofia looks like a provincial town in the Soviet Union - gray, sooty, down at the heel, with a huge central square dominated by a Stalin-Gothic building housing Communist Party offices.  At first glance, the Bulgarian Government, led by the 70-year-old President, Todor Zhivkov, seems like a carbon copy of the Soviet Government, echoing its ideological pronouncements, careful to follow a foreign policy neither too far ahead of nor too far behind that proclaimed in the Kremlin.  Lada and Moskvitch cars, the latter assembled here, dominate the streets of the city. The uniforms of the countless military officers walking through the downtown area look a great deal like those of their Soviet counterparts. Even the alphabet is the same; the Bulgarians, like the Russians, use the Cyrillic characters attributed to two 9th-century Bulgarian brothers, later sanctified, named Cyril and Methodius.  But the visitor who looks more closely will find considerable differences in the way of life and even subtle distinctions in official policy. The divergences are never flaunted, and they are easy to forget in a country where the Russian people are honored as 19th-century liberators; Sofia alone among the satellite capitals has a statue of a Czar - Alexander II - and a church dedicated to Alexander Nevsky. Rare Items Are on Sale  But in a food store on Stamboliiski Boulevard, one sees grapefruits and radishes and oranges piled high, items that would cause a stampede in Kiev or Kharkhov or even Moscow at this time of year. In this store, a small line had formed, perhaps 20 people, but only because crates of bananas from Ecuador were being unloaded behind the counter.  Walking down Georgi Dimitrov Boulevard in the early evening, one sees neon signs, brightly lighted shop windows and bustling groups of people, a far cry from the Stygian gloom that characterizes the winter cityscapes of Soviet evenings, when only policemen and foreigners are out on the streets.  ''We do all right,'' said Georgi Iliev, deputy editor of the trade union newspaper Trud. ''Compared with three decades ago, all of us are well-off, although we know we are far behind the developed capitalist countries. I think we are too well-fed; too many of our people overeat and overdrink.''  Nonetheless, the Government has cut back on food exports - ''with an eye over its shoulder at the bad examples of Poland and Rumania,'' in the view of a Western diplomat here. Serious Economic Problems  The rapid urbanization of a country that was once almost completely agrarian, which has pushed the population of Sofia from 20,000 to 1.1 million in a century, is generating Bulgaria's most serious economic problems. Housing is critically short, causing severe grumbling, and there are not enough automobiles to meet demands.  Only people with the most critical skills and academic specialities are now permitted to move to the capital, and Mr. Iliev's newspaper is campaigning for the relocation of small industries in the countryside. Perhaps that would help with the pollution problem. So far, he said, ''the Government's antipollution decrees have accomplished about the same thing as similar measures in other countries - not much.''  On an international level, Bulgaria is one of the few Eastern European countries with ample reserves of hard currency and good Western credit ratings. But its officials are bitter at the refusal of the United States to accord it most-favored-nation status along with Rumania and Hungary. Such status brings valuable concessions on duties and other matters.  ''We give you no Jewish emigration problems,'' said Luben Gotzev, a department head at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. ''We pay our bills. But the American Government is prejudiced against us; they call us Moscow's biggest stooges. So we have to pay 20 times the taxes on our tobacco that the Greeks and Yugoslavs pay. Naturally, we can't sell it.'' Press Critical of the U.S.  Mr. Gotzev was asked whether persistent Bulgarian press attacks on the United States might be a factor. Two or three harshly critical articles have been printed each day for months, including denunciations of American policy in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, gleeful coverage of the Atlanta murders and, this week, a suggestion that Pearl Harbor resulted from inadequate American sensitivity to fascism.  ''Let's put writings in the press aside,'' said Mr. Gotzev with a wan smile. ''We think business is business and press is press. Besides, your embassy should notice that these things are in news stories; the editorials aren't so critical.''  It is in comments like this one, which might not be made by a comparable official in Moscow, that one suspects subtle differences between the approaches in the two capitals.  Greater freedom of expression is apparent particularly in the cultural area. Bulgarian abstract painters have no difficulty in showing their work in local galleries and indeed in state museums, and the monuments commissioned for the current celebration of the 1,300th anniversary of the founding of the Bulgarian nation, notably those in Sofia and in Kolarovgrad, formerly Shumen, are quite avantgarde. Receptive to Modern Works  Dutch and Scandanavian ballet companies that have recently toured Bulgaria and the Soviet Union found themselves able to present modern works here that were banned farther East.  Many Bulgarian artists ascribe the relatively lenient policy to President Zhivkov's daughter, Lyudmilla, who died this summer at the age of 39 after a brain hemorrhage. She had acted as the country's Culture Minister and had been seen by some as a possible successor to her father. Black-bordered posters announcing her death are still to be seen in Sofia.  ''We thought things would tighten up after her death,'' a musician said. ''So far they haven't. Maybe they won't.'' Artists and others also benefit from contacts with Westerners and Western culture on a relatively large scale. This week, for example, five American plays were running in Sofia, an American film was shown on television, and several others were on view in cinemas. More than five million tourists, lured by the mountains and the beaches on the Black Sea, visit this nation of only 8.8 million people each year. Many of them come from Britain and West Germany, and many make local friends - a practice that is discouraged but not actually outlawed.  Illustrations: Photo of a shop in Bulgaria Correction: January 13, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition An article about Bulgaria on Dec. 11 gave incorrect nationalities for the developers of the Cyrillic alphabet. St. Cyril and his brother, St. Methodius, were Greek missionaries who developed an alphabet while serving in what is now Bulgaria. That alphabet, known as Glagolithic, was refined by their followers into Cyrillic. 
