19820220
BALDWIN, L.I., Feb. 19— More than 350 residents of this village on Nassau County's South Shore gathered in the local high school auditorium Thursday night to talk about crime in their community, its effect on their lives and what the police ought to be doing about it.  ''I don't know if we have enough protection,'' said Grace Paruolo, whose 20-year-old son was shot and fatally wounded during a robbery at the family's beverage store. ''How many patrol cars do we have?''  ''Five,'' replied Inspector Andrew Mulrain of the Nassau County Police Department. ''I don't think that's nearly enough,'' Mrs. Paruolo told him. ''I buried my boy last week, and I haven't heard a thing about this animal who did it.''  There was no anger in Mrs. Paruolo's voice, and while there was a sense of fear among the other people at the session, most of the discussion had to do with muggings, burglaries and crimes less serious than the one that took Michael Paruolo's life. Overall Improvement  Last year there were 309 burglaries in this village, which is 15 miles from Times Square and has 30,000 residents. According to the police, there were also 29 assaults, 34 robberies and one homicide - a hit-and-run automobile accident. The police said these figures represented an overall improvement over 1980.  The hit-and-run case remains unsolved, as does the Paruolo case. Michael Paruolo was shot on Jan. 10 and lay in a coma at a hospital in nearby Oceanside until Feb. 6, when he died. Inspector Mulrain shook his head when someone asked him if there were any leads.  As for combating burglaries, he said the police had stepped up their efforts in Baldwin by sending in special saturation patrols in marked and unmarked cars.  These patrols are deployed when a particular neighborhood is most likely to be hit, he explained. If a residential neighborhood has been plagued by a rash of midafternoon house burglaries, for example, that is when the patrols will be sent in. County to Add Officers  Like others attending the session, Madeline Speight said she doubted that Baldwin's streets would be much safer after the county added 150 new officers to the 3,308-member police force. On Wednesday, a Federal judge lifted a five-year-old hiring ban and said 150 officers could be chosen from a 1977 Civil Service list as long as 32 were women, 15 were black and eight were Hispanic.  ''The more pairs of eyes we have out there, the better it is for us,'' Assemblyman Armand P. D'Amato, a Republican who lives in Baldwin, told the gathering. The session was organized by State Senator Norman J. Levy, a Republican-Conservative from nearby Merrick.  Mrs. Speight said two houses on her block had been burglarized on the same afternoon last summer. Although her house was spared, a thief forced open the trunk of her husband's car and walked away with $200 worth of tools.  ''I don't think it matters what area you're in anymore,'' she said. ''There are problems all over. They say they're going to increase the police, but Nassau County's very big. They can tell me all they want about undercover agents, but I want to see them on the street here.'' Children Staying Inside  Not all the questions asked of Inspector Mulrain or of the Nassau County District Attorney, Denis E. Dillon, had to do with property crimes. Valeria Sarrantino told how a 12-year-old friend of her 13-year-old son had rung her doorbell the other day. He said four teenagers had just drawn a switchblade knife and had tried to steal his bicycle, Mrs. Sarrantino recalled.  ''People used to say their kids couldn't go out after dark,'' she said. ''Now kids don't go out in the afternoon.'' That is a change that upsets Ethel Vessiny, who has lived in Baldwin for 23 years, and her neighbor, Nancy Petollino, who was born here six years before Mrs. Vessiny arrived. Only in the last couple of years have they begun closing their windows when they leave to go shopping or to a movie.  ''You never even had to lock the door,'' Mrs. Vesinny said. ''Well, no more.'' Later in the session, the police showed a 30-minute movie on crime deterrence. Patrick McCormack, an assistant district attorney, said teen-age boys made up a large category of burglars in Baldwin.  ''He's not going to steal your TV or the stereo,'' Mr. McCormack said. ''He will steal jewelry and cash. He's going to walk out with the loot in his pocket. He'll settle for $40 or $50. He'll go out and buy a hero or go to a party.''  Some residents complained about plea bargaining and about delays in trying cases. Mr. Dillon said that the county's conviction rate for burglary was 96 percent, and that he had reduced the use of plea bargaining in such cases.  Some residents, however, said they were not satisfied by what they had heard during the meeting. ''I feel as if I'm the criminal,'' said Linday Hoy. ''I feel as if I have to protect myself while the criminal gets away with everything.''  Illustrations: photo of Grace Paruolo talking of crime photo of member of audience saying her daughter was held at gunpoint photo of Nassau County D.A. Denis E. Dillon 
