19850517
RENO, Nev., May 16— The woman with the subpoena for Larry Holmes carried a picture of the heavyweight champion, to make sure she could identify him. After serving the subpoena, she asked Holmes to autograph the picture for her son.  Yes, another fight, another court battle. This one involves an attempt by JPD Sports of Texas to get the $590,000 that a Texas court ruled Murad Muhammad owed JPD from a previous fight. Muhammad is promoting Holmes's defense here Monday night against Carl (The Truth) Williams and the champion was called into Federal court here.  The heavyweight champion became Larry (The Whole Truth) Holmes for an hour Wednesday as he sparred with the JPD attorney, Rob Hartmann, over the promotional situation for the Williams fight. The first question handled by the champion was ''Are you the Larry Holmes who is the heavyweight champion of the world?'' ''The same,'' Holmes replied. Holmes testified that he was being paid $2.3 million directly by NBC, which will televise the bout in prime time, and that Muhammad would get only $5,000 in expenses. Hartmann found that difficult to believe, and repeatedly asked Holmes about it.  ''I'm going to tell you one more time,'' Holmes said testily.  He said, ''You know, you find a lot of strange people in boxing, whatever way you want to take that.'' Holmes also pointed out that Robert Andreoli, an independent promoter, had promoted two of his title fights, against Scott Frank and Marvis Frazier, and lost $500,000 on the Frank bout and $1 million on the Frazier bout.  ''People will do a fight just for the publicity,'' Holmes said.  The champion said, in effect, that he was promoting the fight himself, through a corporation he set up named Sports Cor (Holmes's attorney, Charles Spaziani, is the president, and the fighter's publicity director, Dick Lovell, the vice president), but needed Muhammad's license in Nevada. The champion, in effect, was thus paying Williams his $175,000 purse.  ''I'm really a nice guy,'' Holmes told the judge after testifying.  The 1-9 odds on Holmes against a man with only 16 pro bouts could be a better proposition than a bank. Betting $9 to win $1 works out to 11.1 percent interest - and Holmes losing may be less likely than a bank collapsing.  Williams, naturally, advises that it would be smarter to bet $1 to win $6 on him. ''I'm not fighting Larry Holmes,'' said the 25-year-old undefeated challenger from White Plains. ''I'm fighting a 35-year-old man who's a shell of himself. I'm fighting Pop Holmes.''  The age factor may work against Williams, at least according to the man who scored two first-round knockdowns in Williams's last fight, Oct. 23. James (Quick) Tillis, who meets Marvis Frazier on the undercard here, said his own title fight came ''too quick'' for him, just as it probably was for Williams.  ''Me, myself, I think he should have a few more fights,'' said Tillis, who in 1981 failed to win the World Boxing Association title against Mike Weaver. ''When I fought for the championship, I should have had five or six more fights. I think Williams will be soft on the inside. You don't mature mentally.''  Another undercard fighter, Randy (Tex) Cobb, who faces Ed Gregg of Kew Gardens, Queens, does not think that much of Williams's chances, either. But he warned that anything could happen with heavyweights.  ''You're forever six inches and one punch from being a has-been,'' said Cobb.  Young Frazier, who after only 10 pro bouts was stopped by Holmes in one devastating round in 1983, agreed that ''a lot of giant fighters have gone down - my father, George Foreman, Ali.''  Cobb has been offered a place on the next Holmes undercard, July 27, when the champion might be facing Michael Spinks, the light heavyweight champion, or more likely some lesser fighter like Frank Bruno of England. Holmes keeps mentioning the ordinary club fighter, Kip Kane of Columbus, Ohio. Cobb is hoping a victory here, with a July triumph over someone like undefeated Mitch Green, might make him a reasonable challenger for the World Boxing Association title now held by Tony Tubbs. Joe Derick, Cobb's trainer, said he had been approached for a possible bout against Gerry Cooney in September.  photo of Larry Holmes (NYT) 
