20070913
 WEEKEND JOURNAL; Review / Books: When History Changed Course   By Shribman, David M, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 14, 2007  Mr. [Jay Winik] sustains this theme of reverberating effects by giving us several embedded narratives, none more gripping than his chronicle of the French Revolution, especially the trials and then the actual trial of Louis XVI, his death by guillotine and then the ordeal of his widow, Marie Antoinette, who met the same fate. This dramatic sequence of events is the spine of the book, but in some ways the entire volume reaches its highest point of historical irony with the death of Robespierre, the revolutionary who led the Terror and was ultimately murdered by it: "In the end," Mr. Winik writes, "the man so reviled was his own victim: He had glorified the republic but could find no compassion for the men and women whose patriotic fervor did not match his own; he had preached universal brotherhood and equality, but then coldly executed the innocent as well as the guilty; he had sanctified the vast, ennobling goals of the Revolution, but had destroyed the very men who tirelessly labored to make them a reality." And though the American Revolution and the great American generation of the early republic constitute a large portion of Mr. Winik's tale, in some ways the most memorable portrait he sketches is that of Russia's [Catherine], who has always occupied a peripheral if not entirely invisible place in the American story.  Not so. As Jay Winik reminds us in "The Great Upheaval," the notable figures of the late 18th century -- "perhaps the greatest galaxy of thinkers and doers in history" -- had their own interlocking directories. "All the great figures of the day, from one end of the globe to the other, watched one another and reacted to one another -- the Americans, the French, the Russians, the Ottomans were all part of one grand, interwoven tapestry." For that reason, as Mr. Winik shows, the fate of France was tied to that of America, and the fate of Poland to that of Russia, and America to England, and England to France, and so forth. In some odd way the world was smaller then than now.   
