19810124
President Reagan may soon have to amend his present list of priority foreign policy decisions when his Administration is challenged in the next few weeks to join the on-going preparatory consultations for ''Global Negotiations'' now being conducted at the United Nations.  Global negotiations are the serious and sustained attempt to restructure the present world economic order between the rich industrialised North and the poor developing South.  The United Nations General Assembly decided by consensus in 1979 that such negotiations, to be conducted in a global conference, should concentrate on five major areas of concern to all countries: raw materials, energy, trade, development, money and finance. It was also unanimously agreed that the negotiations should reflect the mutual benefits and common interest of all concerned, and place special emphasis on the needs and requirements of the developing countries.  Most probably, the package agreement to be wrapped up at the end of the process will include solutions enabling the present world economic order to adapt progressively to the urgent requirements of the next two decades and beyond.  Global negotiations understandably have top priority for most of the developing nations, in particular for the poorest among them. But such negotiations also offer a number of net benefits, both economically and politically, to the industrialized North that should not be overlooked in Washington and other Western capitals.  For the first time in more than two decades of search within the United Nations system for solutions to economic problems, energy is one of the major areas listed on the draft agenda.  This offers the opportunity at the scheduled conference to formally raise - with all the petroleum-producing countries - questions directly related to oil, such as demand, supply, and pricing as well as their trends and predictability.  Stable economic conditions in developing countries promote political stability, a matter of prime interest to governments and industries in the North. Furthermore, economic relations on the basis of partnership and equality between the developed industrialized North and an economically sound and politically stable South will help secure present and future markets and investments.  Some have described global negotiations as the most important challenge of our times. Others called their aim and objective the economic decolonization of the third world. Even if the conference should not reach such historic dimensions, global negotiations seem to have been important enough for foreign ministers and heads of government to spend time during 1980 preparing for them. A North-South summit later this year will take stock of progress made in the New York negotiations by then.  And this is where the Reagan Administration comes in: during months-long and very detailed consultations in New York, the key governments of the industrialized North and the developing South have virtually agreed on the rules of procedure and a time-frame for the Global Negotiations. They have agreed on 90 percent of an agenda for the conference.  What remains to the done in further contracts with North and South during the next few weeks is primarily to search for agreeable common language for agenda items relating to energy on one hand and to money and finance on the other.  At United Nations headquarters, the developing countries (for some of whom the success of the global round may mean their very survival) are as anxious as most of the allies of the United States to learn very soon the answers to two questions:  What function or role in the foreign policy spectrum of a Reagan Administration will be assigned to the United Nations and which priority will United States relations with the third world receive in the future?  Will a Republican Administration, viewed by most at the United Nations as likely to be more conservative, examine the issue of North-South negotiations simply from a limited fiscal point of view or grasp the plitical dimensions of the global round?  Prominent delegates from several developing countries at the United Nations have recalled the record: Americans always stood by the poor and the oppressed. These envoys also cannot conceive that the new Secretary of State of the incoming United States Ambassador to the United Nations will fail to see the economic benefits and the substantial political advantages of Global Negotiations supported by the United States.  The Reagan team is already getting acquainted with the details of the subject. This is good news, because in the end it will be the United States that can make or break the exercise. --------------------------------------------------------------------- Rudiger von Wechmar is President of the Geneeral Assembly of the United Nations. 
