19810127
USING a magnetic contour map showing local highs and lows of magnetism, archeologists from the University of Pennsylvania have located an undisturbed, silt-filled burial cave in Jordan containing artifacts that may illuminate the apparently troubled times in the region between 1200 and 1050 B.C.  The group from the University's Museum of Applied Science Center for Archeology used a cesium magnetometer to find the cave, which was hidden behind six large boulders. It had been overlooked by grave robbers for 3,000 years, presumably because of the silt that had filled it up.  The find, dating from the early Iron Age, included 78 whole vessels, including bowls, lamps, jugs, beer-strainers and chalices, iron and bronze anklets and bracelets, rings, toggle pins, a scarab, a stamp seal and a cylinder seal. Scientists were surprised at the absence of weapons. Skeletons of 225 people, possibly victims of war or disease, were found in two heaps, men in one, women and children in the other.  The trail to the Jordanian artifacts began five years ago when Late Bronze Age pottery showed up on the antiquities market in Amman, the Jordanian capital. The pots were traced to a partially robbed-out burial cave in the northwestern Baq'ah Valley, 12 miles northwest of Amman.  With support from the National Geographic Society, the American Center of Oriental Research in Amman and the Jordanian Government, the Pennsylvania group undertook stratigraphic diggings in 1977 that indicated to them the likelihood of burial caves hidden in the limestone and sandstone slope along the valley. Preparing Magnetic Map  They brought soil samples and rocks from the area to a magnetically ''quiet'' corner of Valley Forge National Park near their Philadelphia home base, where they established background data for the magnetic map. The difference in average magnetic intensity between the silt that had filled some caves and the surrounding rock showed up clearly.  Two years ago, Patrick E. McGovern, director of the museum's Baq'ah Valley project, and his associates marked out a grid and surveyed 8.4 acres, using a magnetometer made to order for the museum. They chose a spot near robbed-out caves which they identified by sifting through the ancient remains in robbers' dumps located downhill from the empty chambers. On a topographical map, they registered pronounced variations in magnetic high and low readings. ''These included 25 significant magnetic highs likely to represent filled-in burial caves and six lows that could be unsilted-up caves, easier to excavate,'' Dr. McGovern said.  The Pennsylvania group returned to dig out the most promising site last summer. ''Theory was fully borne out by excavation,'' Dr. McGovern said. ''A completely undisturbed early Iron Age burial cave was discovered exactly in the area of the magnetic anomaly.'' It was elliptical, about 15 by 20 feet. at the longest and widest points.  ''Various types of magnetometers have been successfully used in archaeological work over the past 20 years,'' he said, ''but rarely has there been such a clear example of its value.'' His museum used magnetometers in the 1960's to do part of the mapping of Sybaris, a buried Greek city in Italy, and to locate gravesites at Forts Louisbourg and Lennox, Canada.  ''Some of the bracelets and anklets, possibly made of iron from ancient mines 12 miles away, are almost totally noncorroded,'' Dr. McGovern said. ''They contain one-half of one percent carbon, a mild steel, that seems to have been intentionally made. We have earlier examples of ironworking and smelting, but these are among the earliest steel artifacts ever found.''  In contrast to the technological sophistication indicated by the steel jewelry, the pottery was very poorly made, particularly as compared to Late Bronze Age examples in neighboring caves. There was much less decoration; it was a coarser ware. Pottery Is Used to Date Find  However, the pottery is a key to dating the discovery, by comparing examples to sites already dated. ''There are many recorded instances of destruction all up and down the Eastern Mediterranean around 1200 B.C.,'' Dr. McGovern said. ''By correlations with Egyptian texts which talk about invasions from the sea and from the desert, we can place the ending of the Late Bronze Age. Other destructions are recorded from the 10th century. The early Iron Age is bracketed between the two.''  He noted an additional contrast with the earlier, but more esthetically advanced, Late Bronze Age caves. The early Iron Age cave contained far less imported material. ''This indicates the deterioration of trade links with surrounding countries that had existed in the earlier period,'' he said.  Remains of kneecaps and craniums of some of the skeletons showed they had similar genetic traits. ''We are looking at the hypothesis that it is an extended family,'' Dr. McGovern said. ''From indications that the cave was used for at least a century and the presence of 200 individuals, it seems possible that several generations may have been represented. This points to permanent settled life at a period when we expect a lot of disruption.''  ''This tightly dated burial group promises to illuminate a critical time when Bronze Age culture was ending and new peoples, such as the Ammonites and Israelites, were emerging,'' Dr. McGovern said.  The museum group is racing against both 20th century grave robbers and construction bulldozers that are preparing the site for a housing project. Bulldozing along the natural terraces in the area of the magnetometer survey has revealed as many as 14 potential caves, four of which coincide with magnetic highs, Dr. McGovern said. 
