19820212
CLAIRE and Zack of Arthur Hiller's ''Making Love,'' are a lot like Jenny and Oliver of Mr. Hiller's ''Love Story,'' except that they have a problem. The problem's name is Bart, and his involvement with Zack would have been unthinkable, or at least unfilmable, in a bigstudio soap opera of ''Love Story'' vintage. Twelve years later, things have changed just enough to let Bart play a role about as real and important as Zack's or Claire's in a thoroughly oldfashioned, wonderfully sudsy romance. Something old, something new.  ''Making Love,'' which opens today at the Criterion, Gotham, Murray Hill and other theaters, is sure to delight some audiences, but it isn't for everybody. It isn't, for instance, for those who value seriousness, quality or realism above sheer foolishness, at least where their soap operas are concerned. Nor is it for those who regard homosexuality and heterosexuality as essentially different persuasions. Claire, Zack and Bart are so much alike that they have the same taste in music, the same enthusiasm for their careers, the same pleasant standard of living and the same sad story about the father who neglected them. If Claire didn't wear skirts, and Zack his doctor's uniforms, and Bart his fashionable variations on a single gray-sweatshirt theme, it might be difficult to tell them apart.  Love, as far as this movie is concerned, means never having to say ouch. The Claire-Zack-Bart story sets such a high standard for painless romantic troubles that Ali MacGraw's ''Love Story'' deathbed scene becomes angrily graphic by comparison. Some of the careful soft-pedaling comes from Barry Sandler's screenplay, and some comes from Mr. Hiller's casting of three handsome, cheerful actors -Kate Jackson, Michael Ontkean and Harry Hamlin - with no apparent faculties for registering dismay. Events that might be quite upsetting in real life are simply mild inconviences here.  Anyone who can see what's the matter with Claire and Zack's marriage upon first viewing of ''Making Love'' deserves a special prize, perhaps one of Bart's handsome sweatshirts. Claire and Zack, when we first meet them, look happy as can be. They're prosperous, energetic, interested in their work and great pals. Mr. Hiller spends the opening part of the story just watching them having good, clean fun. Study them very, very closely, though, and you may spot a faraway look in Zack's eye after one very discreet bedroom scene. Something is wrong.  It turns out - ''Making Love'' would be a better but less shrewdly pacifying movie if it made this clearer - that 30-year-old Zack, he of the freewheeling flower-power generation, is only just discovering what his sexual leanings may be. He can't be described as homosexual, or at least he isn't thus described in t he sc reenplay - that word isn't used at all, and even ''gay'' only turn s up once. Instead, Zackat first thinks he's merely ''curious.'' His curiosity leads him to Bart, an aloof type who, like the hero of an old musical, is the mostpopular fellow in town. When Bart visits his favorite bar, he's practically greeted with a chorus of ''Hello, Dolly.'' Everybody wants him, and he can afford to be coy, which is why Zack finds Bart so difficult to get through to.  The first and only sexual tryst between Bart and Zack is the only real sex scene in the movie, and it's handled subtly, decorously, and very well. Mr. Hiller knows how to present this as a believable, affecting love story. Indeed, he manages to make all three characters likable enough to keep the audience gently involved in their affairs. Every possible disruptive element is avoided. You can bet your boots that Claire and Bart never have a showdown - they never even meet, as a matter of fact. When Zack tells Claire he's been seeing someone else, she somehow forgets to ask who that might be. Instead - remember, this is a soap opera - she blindly picks up the telephone to call a friend. Then she puts the phone down. Then she asks Zack what he wants for dinner.  Once the cat is out of the bag, the movie turns rip-roaring awful in an entirely enjoyable way. There is, for instance, Claire's visit to one of Zack's male lovers, whose address she finds on a matchbook in Zack's closet. ''Could I ask you a stupid question?'' she says, rather unnecessarily. ''Are you happy?'' The movie maintains this pitch right through to its ending. The ending, incidentally, is one for the record books.  Armchair psychiatrists will have a field day deciphering the various sexual permutations, particularly since the movie is so reluctant to make anything clear. Mr. Ontkean, as Zack, contributes greatly to this. The very first shot of him shows him sitting on the floor of an empty room, flanked by two matching windows: a man divided. Later on, though, his blank, uncertain expression remains unchanged, even when Zack, ostensibly discontent with Claire, is supposed to be flowering in Bart's company. Mr. Ontkean's take-it-orleave-it attitude towards both lovers might hurt the movie if he weren't otherwise so appealing, or if anything were more clear. But he is, and it isn't, and none of it much matters anyhow.  Mr. Hamlin's job is to make Bart attractive yet disagreeable, something he accomplishes with a lot of primping in his three-view mirror. Miss Jackson is pert and amiable in happy scenes as well as sad ones. She and Mr. Hamlin aren't lacking anything that's essential for their roles. Also in the cast of Mr. Hiller's film are Arthur Hill and Wendy Hiller. Someone worked very hard with a phone book to put this all together, that's for sure. Janet Maslin  The New Triangle  MAKING LOVE, directed by Arthur Hiller; screenplay by Barry Sandler; story by A. Scott Berg; director of photography, David M. Walsh; edited by William H. Reynolds; music by Leonard Rosenman; produced by Allen Adler and Daniel Melnick; released by 20th Century-Fox. At the Criterion, Broadway and West 45th Street; Gotham, Third Avenue and 58th Street; Murray Hill, 34th Street east of Lexington Avenue, and other theaters. Running time: 113 minutes. This film is rated R.  Zack . . . . . Michael Ontkean  Claire . . . . . Kate Jackson  Bart . . . . . Harry Hamlin  Winnie . . . . . Wendy Hiller  Henry . . . . . Arthur Hill  Christine . . . . . Nancy Olson  Tim . . . . . John Dukakis  Harrington . . . . . Terry Kiser  Larry . . . . . Dennis Howard  Ted . . . . . Asher Brauner  David . . . . . John Calvin  Arlene . . . . . Gwen Arner  Ken . . . . . Gary Swanson  Lila . . . . . Ann Harvey  Photo: photo of Michael Ontkean 
