19820511
ANXIETY over the search for jobs is creating new academic, social and emotional problems for college seniors, career and mental health counselors report. Students in their final semesters face pressure to travel to off-campus interviews, while at the same time completing academic requirements. Competition for jobs is destructive to campus friendships and to the social life that ought to carry over from college to the postcommencement world.  The most dramatic change is the approximate doubling of the number of seniors who are planning to go directly into the job market rather than to graduate school. Andrew Thompson, director of career counseling at Wesleyan University, says only 25 percent of this year's graduating class expects to go directly to graduate school, compared with more than 50 percent five years ago. Uncertainty about Federal support of graduate studies has aggravated the situation.  Dr. Gary Margolis, director of counseling at Middlebury College in Vermont and president of the New England College Health Association, says that seniors on his and other campuses have been spending much more time than in previous years on an intensified job search. They worry, he says, ''how marketable they are.'' They are constantly interrupted by interviews on and off campus, of necessity in some cases and prematurely in others, Dr. Margolis said.  ''I think these people are joining the premedical and prelaw students who always felt those pressures,'' said Edward Noyes, director of counseling at Yale University.  Dr. Margolis finds increasing numbers of seniors troubled and confused. The job pressures come at a time when they also face personal issues. It's difficult for 22-year-olds, he said, to sort out the priorities - how important it is to finish the course work while worrying not only about their ''practical goodbyes'' but also their ''metaphysical goodbyes'' as they leave one world for another.  Students have been evaluated in many ways, Dr. Margolis said, but never quite in the way they are judged in the job market. This can be confirming or upsetting, he said. Not to be called back for a second interview, he cited as an example, ''is a real live issue but it can be very much exaggerated when it at the same time clashes with academic work.''  ''A number of seniors for the first time view their peers in a different, competitive way,'' Dr. Margolis said. ''They are competing, not in athletics or in the classroom, but on the outside.'' He sees young people who are disturbed by that experience, who ''wonder about their selves and about others'' as they enter into competition with close friends.  Finishing college and looking for employment at the same time is not easy. Barbara Lazarus, director of counseling at Wellesley College, said: ''It's like looking for a job while you have a fulltime job. While this is not unusual in later life, this is the first time and there is a dimension of the unknown.''  This year, Miss Lazarus said, more than 70 percent of Wellesley's graduates plan to go directly into the labor market. The big change, she said, is that many students either have given up on Federal fellowships or are still waiting for word.  Barbara-Jan Wilson, director of career counseling at Williams College, confirms the increased pressures, including those from parents. ''The kids hear a great deal about the problems of the job market,'' she said. Actually, she added, this has been a good year for on-campus job recruiting, and the worries may be exaggerated.  To ease the pressures, the college arranges special workshops for seniors to build their confidence, to exchange experiences and to let them know that there are still jobs out there. Students, she said, have not lost their sense of humor about the situation. They have invented a ''hall of shame'' - an entire wall on which they post their rejection letters.  The conflicts are nevertheless real. For example, there is the decision whether to let the college work slide and wait until after graduation to look for a job, or to try to do both now. ''We tell students that academic work still comes first,'' Miss Wilson said.  At Yale, Mr. Noyes confirmed that a new record was set for the number of seniors who signed up for job interviews - 580, or half the entire class, compared with a previous record of 440. ''They're all broke or in debt and have got to go to work,'' Mr. Noyes said.  He does not detect much panic but ''more determination,'' and the seniors, he said, have better resumes and skills. The theme of the class day speech delivered by a student, Mr. Noyes predicted, ''is likely to be that it's too bad that people have to sell their souls to go after the almighty dollar.''  Those in search of jobs do not appear to be worried about such reactions by some of their peers. People coming from interviews in three-piece suits, Mr. Noyes recalled, used to rush back to their rooms so their premed friends would not see them. But now, he said, some even flaunt their businesslike attire.  Stephen Johannsen, director of career counseling at Middlebury, said one way to alleviate pressures is to encourage students not to put off the entire job search until the end of the senior year. ''We advise them to use their Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks and to take summer jobs to sharpen their view,'' he said. But for this year's seniors such advice is water over the dam.  Illustrations: drawing 
