20050109
 The Year of Living Diplomatically   By Sheridan, Greg, The Wall Street Journal,  Jan 10, 2005  Instead the man understood that when there is real trouble, you look to America, and its allies and friends, especially such fellow democracies as Japan and Australia. The U.S. immediately convened a core group of nations to coordinate the early relief effort. The identity of the core group tells us much -- India, Japan and Australia, three democracies, two of them formal military allies of the U.S. It would surely have been inconceivable to even the most imaginative Pentagon scenario writer to think that U.S. and Australian soldiers would be conducting large-scale joint operations in Aceh, the site of an ongoing, fierce Islamic separatist rebellion in Indonesia. Yet it was U.S. military helicopters which first brought relief to survivors there.  Powerful forces in the Middle East are trying to radicalize, even Arabize, Indonesian Islam. The battle for the soul of Islam in Indonesia is of immense importance to the United States. Washington and Jakarta have cooperated well in the war on terror. The tsunami gives the U.S. the opportunity to re-engage Indonesia, and Southeast Asia more generally, on a far wider front than just the war on terror, to re-engage in fact in the most traditional of American fashions -- in the export of hope. The magnificent generosity of Americans has touched Indonesians' hearts. Who now can possibly argue that the U.S. is engaged in some crusade against Islam?  Indonesia, and Southeast Asia generally, do not have a bad record in responding to disaster, whether manmade or natural. The typical reaction is not one of African-style fatalism, but rather to galvanize governments into bursts of reform and capacity building. That is the story behind the region's rebound from the 1997 economic crisis. Here Indonesia's new president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, a technocrat, a moderate, a friend of the West, has an historic opportunity to use this setback to generate a new burst of economic reform in Indonesia, and a new degree of intimacy with the U.S., and its closest Asian allies, Australia and Japan (not to mention India, with whom Indonesia shares more than just its national epic, the Ramayana, but also similar traditions of moderate Islam).   
