19820517
More than 200 General Motors buses that have remained undelivered because of a dispute over a faulty rear-door mechanism will soon be on their way to New York, officials of the Transit Authority and the company said yesterday.  The officials said they had reached agreement on repairs for the buses, the advanced-design RTS-04. The authority stopped accepting the buses last month after three riders sustained minor injuries when the doors opened unexpectedly.  ''They've developed a new, heavier mechanism that we are prepared to accept for evaluation,'' said Andrew G. Schiavone, the head of the authority's bus division. 'No Cost to the City'  Frank Cronin, the public information director of G.M.'s Truck and Coach Division, said that the mechanism would be installed in the 220 buses awaiting delivery in Pontiac, Mich., and that the 942 buses already in the city would also get the device.  ''We plan on retrofitting all of the buses New York has and will have in service - at no cost to the city,'' Mr. Cronin said. It could be several months, however, before all the repairs are made, and officials cautioned passengers not to lean against the rear doors or stand in the stairwells. Prevents Bus From Moving  The problem involves the components that control the doors, which are pushed outward by passengers. The mechanism is supposed to prevent the bus from moving when the doors are open.  Mr. Schiavone of the Transit Authority said complications stemming from the need for wider and heavier doors, to accommodate wheelchair lifts, had caused the malfunction.  Mr. Cronin of General Motors agreed that the wheelchair lift was a factor, but he said that New York's bumpy streets and heavy loads also contributed to the problem. ''We have not experienced the problem in other cities,'' he said. 837 in Service  There are now 837 G.M. buses on New York streets. Since the problem developed in mid-April, 30 G.M. mechanics have been working to keep them in service. In addition, 105 buses delivered since the problem was detected have been kept idle while the dispute was resolved.  Transit officials said the problem was minor compared with the removal from service nearly two years ago of 637 Grumman Flxible buses because of cracks in their undercarriages.  The city had to borrow 160 buses from Washington to deal with the shortage that resulted. Once the Grumman buses were fixed, the buses were returned.  John D. Simpson, the Transit Authority's president, provided a footnote to the Grumman story the other day when he announced that two of New York's buses would soon be sent to Washington. What happened, he said, was that only 158 of the 160 borrowed buses had been returned. One had been stolen, he said, and the other badly damaged in an accident. 
