20061013
 PURSUITS; Books: Double Dutch; Ha so-so art forger snookered collectors, critics and Hermann Goering   By Weschler, Lawrence, The Wall Street Journal,  Oct 14, 2006  One contemporary critic called van Meegeren's early paintings, committed under his own name, "insipid and sickly, sometimes miserably forsaken, always weak and powerless." And so do his subsequent forgeries also seem to us today. Although British journalist [Frank Wynne] titles his account of van Meegeren's improbable life "I Was [Jan Vermeer]," one is inclined to respond, Bentsen-like: "Um, actually, no. We know Vermeer. Vermeer has been a favorite artist of ours. And believe us, [Hans van Meegeren], you were no Vermeer." The trouble, of course, is that for more than a decade, van Meegeren did have everyone, including many of the top art professionals of his time, blissfully fooled.  For one thing, Mr. Wynne shows how the artist pitched his fictional production to the precise gap in the threadbare Vermeer corpus that experts like [Abraham Bredius] were so desperately longing to fill in, a gap that fell between the Delft master's somewhat awkward early religious paintings and the sublime genre pieces of his maturity. "The forger," notes Mr. Wynne, "need only uncover the critic's deepest desires and make them real." The experts, like Bredius, were dying to be fooled -- or at any rate to convince themselves that they'd made a discovery almost as brilliant in its own way as the thing they were discovering. All, after all, is vanity.  Mr. Wynne recounts all this deception -- and the details of his subject's busy life -- with a certain panache. He is at his crisp, witty and informative best in his capsule overview of the history of forgery and in his description of the alchemical marvels involved in the restorative and the (closely associated) dissembling arts. Alas, at times he insists on burrowing into people's heads and then eavesdropping on supposedly verbatim conversations featuring quotes that seem just too good to be true. The book's complete lack of specific sourcing (except for an undifferentiated three-page bibliographic listing at the end) does little to inspire confidence in this regard. And Mr. Wynne's prose occasionally lapses into squirmingly purple nonsense, especially when he broaches our dubious hero's experience of the sexual. ("Her name was Anna. . . . Her skin was sensuous and tawny, her eyes were pale almonds, her hair shone like a hank of coal-black silk.") Still, the narrative has a propulsive drive, and the story moves along at a merry clip.   
