19950913
 Nasdaq Crackdown: Respect the Market...   By Breeden, Richard C, The Wall Street Journal,  Sep 14, 1995  Nasdaq is an impressive startup itself. Ignoring the accepted wisdom on running a trading system, Nasdaq's founders built a computerized market that didn't rely on a traditional, high-cost trading floor. Starting at complete zero in the late 1960s, Nasdaq has grown into the world's second largest equity market in terms of trading volume. Along with becoming the principal competition to the auction system, Nasdaq has also served as the technological forerunner of many of the electronic trading systems now used around the world. There aren't any galleries for busloads of tourists to visit, but millions of investors have found something they seem to like.  A key concern of Nasdaq's critics is the charge that as a self-regulatory body the NASD has been unduly lax in fulfilling its duties to oversee and police the market. Many feel that the NASD or Nasdaq boards should be restructured to include more "public" members. This may be a good idea, but having the federal government mandate who sits on the boards of private organizations creates significant problems. If being an "exchange" means that your board of directors will be mandated by federal regulators, fewer technological companies or entrepreneurs will be willing to provide exchange-like services. Thus, the flow of technology to the market could be slowed by imposing too restrictive a regulatory straightjacket.  Following the publication of an academic paper suggesting that "spreads" (essentially the dealers' profit margin) on trades on the Nasdaq stock market were unnaturally wide, the Justice Department launched an antitrust inquiry into possible price collusion among Nasdaq dealers. Class-action lawsuits were filed, and the Securities and Exchange Commission commenced its own investigation. Press articles have attacked the National Association of Securities Dealers, the Nasdaq governing body, as a virtual club of scoundrels. No one outside the government (including me) really knows whether laws were broken, and if so who is to blame. But all of this activity makes it seem like something is pretty rotten in Denmark.   
