19830217
CAPE TOWN, Feb. 16— Prime Minister P.W. Botha says his Government would consider requests for aid from anti-Communist guerrilla forces in southern Africa. He also says he stands ready to enter into nonaggression pacts with any neighbor, regardless of its political system.  "If fellow Africans are threatened by the evils of Communism, we shall assist them when our assistance is requested," he said in a rare interview in his office here on Tuesday. "I'm an African and I believe Communism is bad for Africa."  Asked if that meant that any insurgent force that believed it was fighting communism could turn to South Africa, he replied, "If it is in the interests of South Africa and stability on our borders, we shall certainly consider it." Such forces now existed in neighboring countries, the Prime Minister said, but he declined to "theorize" about whether they might already be getting South African help.  A 66-year-old professional politician who has given his adult life to the ruling National Party, the Prime Minister has a public reputation for truculence and irascibility. But he was in a mellow and reflective mood as he answered questions on a wide range of subjects during the two-hour interview, including his plan to transform South Africa's constitutional structure in the present session of Parliament.  On the subject of requests for aid from guerrilla forces, Mr. Botha said, "Let us take one example" and referred to the Angolan insurgent group led by Jonas Savimbi, the Union for the Total Independence of Angola, known as Unita. "Are all the countries in the world prepared to tell me that they don't support Unita?" Mr. Savimbi's movement, one of several that South Africa has been accused of sponsoring, has hinted that it gets support from Morocco, Saudi Arabia and some of the French-speaking African countries.  Despite his stance on possible help to insurgent movements, Mr. Botha strongly denied the charge that South Africa was engaged in systematic "destabilization" of governments in neighboring black countries such as Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Lesotho. He dismissed the charge as "another stunt by Marxist forces, by Moscow and their satellites, to hide their efforts in the subcontinent because they want destabilization so as to enable themselves to get control of strategic points." 'We Shall Strike Back'  "If it hadn't been for our economy," he added, "starvation on a large scale would have existed in some of our neighboring countries today."  Asked how he would reconcile his professed desire for economic cooperation with neighboring nations with his readiness to consider supporting insurgencies that operate against them, Mr. Botha said: "While the Communists are fighting us aggressively, sending organized units against South Africa's borders, surely we cannot only remain sitting with folded hands and saying, 'Don't do it to us.' We shall strike back. But if we have agreements, then it won't be necessary to fight each other."  The nonagression pacts he envisions with neighboring countries, Mr. Botha said, would rule out either national allowing its territory to be used as a springboard for insurgent attacks against the other. The pacts would also provide for "practical means to see that it's carried out."  Did that mean, Mr. Botha was asked, that South Africa was reacting to the threat of insurgent attacks on its own territory by the underground African National Congress by telling its neighbors that two could play that game? "We say two can play at this game," he replied. "We say two can make war. But two can also create peace."  He continued, "If Mozambique's leaders will say, 'We are a socialist state but we won't fight against South Africa militarily and we will cooperate economically' - and they mean it that they won't undermine SouthAfrica by letting their country be used by people who are fighting against South Africa, then surely we can cooperate."  Mr. Botha's plan to transform South Africa's constitutional structure in the present session of Parliament is intended to enable him to include political figures from two nonwhite minorities, the mixed-race people known as coloreds, and Indians, in his Cabinet. Modestly Furnished Office  Before this happens Mr. Botha is expected to be elected by the indirect vote of a new three-chamber Parliament - with seperate chambers for whites, coloreds and Indians - to the position of President where, his critics say, he will have armed himself with authoritarian powers.  Throughout the interview he remained seated behind his desk in his paneled office on the top floor of an office tower across the street form the Parliament building. The modestly furnished office, which seemed slightly smaller than those of some of his Cabinet colleagues, was filled with landscapes of the rugged South African terrain.  Mr. Botha's tone was informal but, now and then, he lightly thumped his desk for emphasis, as when he predicted that "the time will come when the colored people and the black people will admit that the National Party was the catayst to bring them to their own in southern Africa." 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
