20070513
 Politics & Economics: New Scrutiny for Iraq Contractors; Killing by Blackwater Worker Poses Dilemma for U.S. Authorities   By Dreazen, Yochi J, The Wall Street Journal,  May 14, 2007  The incident began when an off-duty Blackwater employee who had been drinking heavily tried to make his way into the "Little Venice" section of the Green Zone, which houses many senior members of the Iraqi government, according to U.S. and Iraqi officials. He was stopped by Iraqi bodyguards for Adil Abdul-Mahdi, the country's Shiite vice president, and shot one of the Iraqis, according to U.S. and Iraqi officials. The bodyguard died at the scene, the officials say. The contractor was fired by Blackwater and has returned to the U.S. The company has declined to disclose his name.  The company has reason to tread carefully. Aides to Mr. Abdul-Mahdi say relatives of the victim are nearly certain to file a civil lawsuit in the U.S. against Blackwater, which is already embroiled in a pair of high-profile suits. In the first case, relatives of three U.S. soldiers killed in a crash of a Blackwater airplane in Afghanistan are suing a Blackwater affiliate for negligence in a Florida court. In the second, relatives of four Blackwater security guards killed in Fallujah, Iraq, are suing the company for wrongful death in a state court in North Carolina. Blackwater and its parent company, Prince Group LLC, have denied wrongdoing and are fighting both suits.  The Iraqi officials say that representatives of Blackwater visited with Mr. al-Saraay's family to apologize for the shooting and offer them up to $100,000. Relatives of the security guard, who had young children, accepted the money but made clear they wanted to see the contractor jailed, the Iraqi officials say. Ms. [Anne Tyrrell], Blackwater's spokeswoman, denied the company had offered $100,000 in reparations but declined to comment further, saying that discussing any potential Blackwater offer to the family could "endanger lives in Iraq."   
