19810723
AT its best moments, the Mostly Mozart Festival at Avery Fisher Hall can remind us of an aspect of classical style stressed by Charles Rosen in his critical writings. Musical details and dramatic structures can be intimately related. The shape of a two-note phrase or the relationship between a rest and an accent can reveal largescale gestures of an entire work.  But on Monday night, when Michael Tilson Thomas conducted the orchestra, detail concealed structure. In Beethoven's Fourth Symphony, the modulations of the first movement, the pulsing accompaniments of the second and the contrasts of the third had little character or direction; they remained isolated musical events. Mr. Thomas seemed to turn his attention from one detail to another without much concentration.  He was more successful with Salieri's Symphony in D (''Sinfonia Veneziana''), a 1765 work by a 15-year-old composer that showed more promise and innocent virtue than Salieri's current reputation acknowledges. The playful details - the operatic thrusts, the regularity of phrases and the irregularity of modulations - never overly attracted the listener in Mr. Thomas's performance, but they were never permitted to detract from the pleasant impression.  It was when Alicia de Larrocha joined Mr. Thomas for a performance of Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 27 in B-flat (K. 595) that concentration on detail could be heard illuminating the work. Miss de Larrocha is so comfortable in Mozartean style that she can turn an ascending scale leading to a resolving trill or a series of modulating arpeggios into tangible musical gestures, commenting on the musical drama. Phrases were thoughtfully outlined, with strong or weak endings, ending one section or beginning another.  Perhaps because of an attention too finely focused on this occasion, the pianist missed the drama's assertive power. With understated elegance, contrasts were turned into mild conversational statements; the beauty of a well-turned phrase was not extended into the larger structure. But in the details of her playing that power could be sensed - latent, if not revealed. 
