20030611
 Freddie Mac Confronts Many Issues   By By Gregory Zuckerman, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 12, 2003  FOR THREE DECADES, Freddie Mac has been a pillar holding up the nation's key housing market, along with its larger sibling, Fannie Mae. The company, created by the government but now owned by shareholders, buys home mortgages from banks and mortgage lenders, enabling the institutions to make more loans to consumers. Freddie Mac keeps the mortgages itself or packages them together as collateral for bonds sold to investors.  On the heels of this week's departure of the company's three top executives, amid allegations of document tampering by the company's president and chief financial officer, David Glenn, the Freddie Mac house is showing signs of some cracks. The company's accounting is being challenged by securities regulators, and the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission have launched investigations into the matter. Freddie Mac's stock has held steady after an initial 16% decline on Monday, but it fell 3% more yesterday amid worries by some investors that there might be more problems lurking. Any substantive troubles at Freddie Mac could undermine the strength of the $6.6 trillion U.S. mortgage market, which has held up an otherwise shaky economy for the past three years.  A: The problem so far seems to be an issue of how Freddie Mac accounted for its earnings. Unlike companies such as Enron Corp. or WorldCom Inc., Freddie doesn't appear to have inflated its earnings; if anything, they held them down. The question is whether this was designed to make earnings higher down the road. "We are acknowledging that in some instances we weren't in compliance" with generally accepted accounting principles, said a Freddie Mac spokesman. "Going forward we intend to fix it and get it right." If the problems ultimately are found to have stemmed from inappropriate accounting, the company likely will continue keep providing the lubrication to keep the mortgage market running smoothly. But if it turns out the company isn't as profitable or safe as it has portrayed itself, investors will be less likely to buy Freddie Mac's debt, hurting the company's ability to buy more mortgages. That could make it harder for lenders to find a good price when they want to sell their mortgage loans, putting upward pressure on rates and perhaps sparking doubts in the white-hot housing market.   
