19811215
H.'Lisa H., as she called herself to preserve her privacy, suffered since birth from neurofibromatosis, the disfiguring ailment that was named Elephant Man's Disease in the 19th century. Last week Science Times reported on the 21-year-old woman's decision to go through with a complex operation. The following is an account of the risky, prolonged surgery she underwent last Wednesday. By RICHARD SEVERO PHILADELPHIA AT midnight last Tuesday, Lisa H. called her mother from her private room in the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Lisa, whose face was badly deformed by the tumor-causing neurofibromatosis, was just hours away from the surgery that she hoped would change her face and her life. Her family knew it would be radical surgery and she was concerned about their apprehensions.  ''I don't want you to worry about anything,'' Lisa said. ''This operation was meant to be. I know it will be all right. I just know it.''  ''I know it, too,'' her mother said. ''We've waited 21 years for this.'' A few hours later, Lisa underwent eight hours of extraordinary surgery, came through it satisfactorily and got the new face she so wanted, but not without subjecting her body to a punishing ordeal.  When the large vascular tumors that had dominated her face and her life were removed by her principal plastic surgeon, Dr. Linton A. Whitaker, she bled profusely, almost uncontrollably at times, and so required 35 units of blood - more than four times as much as her body holds.  Adding to that blood, the fresh-frozen plasma, platelets to assist clotting and albumin, this 130-pound woman received transfusions of various liquids totaling 54 pounds.  Blood loss was not the only problem. It became clear midway through surgery that she also needed a craniotomy, something her surgeons had wanted to avoid, because it carried the risk of puncturing the dura, the lining around the brain. That, they knew, could cause meningitis. Indeed, Dr. Derek Bruce, the neurosurgeon, recommended against the procedure. He made it clear midway through the surgery that he saw the craniotomy as potentially ''life-threatening.'' His fellow surgeons gathered around him in the operating room. They knew Dr. Bruce had handled bold and complicated surgery many times before and that he would not hesitate if there were not good reason.  But Dr. Whitaker was insistent. ''I don't want to slip back to doing minimal things here,'' he said. ''Minimal things have already been tried and they haven't done anybody any good.''  Dr. Whitaker wanted to accomplish as much as possible in this surgery, so that any future procedures would be minor by comparison. He thought that approach would be better, both physically and psychologically, for Lisa. Dr. James A. Katowitz, an ophthalmic surgeon who has known Lisa since she was 4 years old and greatly admires her, agreed with Dr. Whitaker. Risky, but Needed, Procedure  They talked it out and quickly concluded that they had no choice but to penetrate her skull with a drill and saw, ease the brain back just a bit and implant some bone to separate the back of her right eye from the brain's covering. The natural bone barrier had been missing since her birth, and without it she was almost sure to lose the vision remaining in her right eye (her left eye, virtually blind, had been removed earlier in the surgery). That procedure, performed by Dr. Bruce, went smoothly and uneventfully.  ''We did not penetrate the dura,'' he said, smiling as he left the operating room. ''It was easier than I thought it would be.'' As of yesterday, Lisa H. was reported to be in ''very good'' condition and was moved from intensive care back to her private room. She had a slight fever, which was not regarded as serious. She had vision in her right eye. Dr. Whitaker said that although he'd have some idea as to what surgery had accomplished in about six weeks, the full effect could not be estimated for around six months.  The night before surgery, Lisa was visited by several of her doctors, among them Dr. Ellen Jantzen, who with Dr. John Lecky would be one of the anesthesiologists for the operation. In a meeting that lasted about 45 minutes, Dr. Jantzen explained how anesthesia would be administered and how Lisa would be monitored during surgery. She would wake up, Dr. Jantzen said, with some tubes still in her, such as the endotracheal tube assuring her a airway. Dr. Jantzen returned later in the evening for a 15-minute meeting to see if Lisa had any more questions or new concerns.  Lisa, who had had 11 previous operations on her face and head, told Dr. Jantzen that it wasn't just the operation that concerned her, but the feeling of anxiety she experiences on the way to surgery. ''I don't like to lie on the stretcher and see the tops of the hospital doors go by,'' she said. 'Less Nervous Than I Thought'  And so, at 5:15 A.M., Dr. Jantzen came to Lisa's room again and gave her Valium, morphine and atropine to relax her and to preclude adverse, involuntary reflexes during surgery. Before anesthesia, she told Dr. Lecky, ''I'm much less nervous than I thought I'd be.'' 1 2 NEXT PAGE > 
