19810329
Even for someone like me, who has long insisted that nature is vastly overrated, the scene was a hard one to resist. It was a brilliantly clear day on St. John, the smallest of the United States Virgin Islands, and we were sitting in one of Caneel Bay Plantation's open-air restaurants, a converted sugar mill set on a hill surrounded by gardens. Directly ahead of us was a vast expanse of bright blue water, punctuated by a handful of graceful schooners. Off to our left was a mountain covered with dense green forest, through which a jeep was snaking its way along a winding road. To our right, on the lawn below us, three donkeys frolicked playfully and chased each other in sweeping circles. All this we took in over lunch, while sipping pina coladas.  What my wife, Deborah, and I want from a vacation spot seems simple enough. I like to play tennis. Deborah likes to snorkel and swim. We are both among those who believe that lying on a stretch of white beach under a reliably bright sun, armed with a pile of books, is something close to ideal. Simple and reasonably good food will suffice. We do not care about a thriving social schedule, an active nightlife or an abundance of sights. Our requirements have never struck me as terribly stringent. Unfortunately, they have proven difficult to satisfy.  This year, we decided to splurge and try Caneel Bay Plantation. Caneel Bay was the first of the Rockresorts, the small group of hotels (the others are currently Little Dix Bay on Virgin Gorda in the British Virgin Islands, the Woodstock Inn in Woodstock, Vt., and the Grand Teton Lodge in Moran, Wyo.) built by Laurence Rockefeller. Mr. Rockefeller discovered the site during one of many sailing trips he took through the Caribbean in the late 1940's. Although he immediately fell in love with St. John's beaches, mountains and tropical foliage, it took some time to construct a resort there. An underwater electrical system and a water desalinization plant were required before Caneel Bay could receive its first guest in 1955. Today it has 156 rooms, spread over 178 acres, all of which are part of 5,000 surrounding acres that Mr. Rockefeller bought and donated to the United States national park system.  By the standards of opulent American resorts, Caneel Bay is not luxurious. There are no telephones in the rooms (though messages seemed to be delivered promptly) and the rooms themselves are simply furnished. There is no air-conditioning and no refrigerator - instead, a bucket of ice is brought to each room daily. But the simplicity is part of Caneel Bay's appeal. It is comfortable without being ostentatious, private without being remote.  It is also astonishingly beautiful. Narrow roads wind through groves of banana and coconut palms, sea grapes and frangipani trees, and cut across perfectly manicured lawns bright with bougainvillea, hibiscus and flamboyant trees. No cars are allowed past a front parking lot, but small buses circle the grounds every 40 minutes (every 20 minutes after 4 P.M.), connecting the three groups of rooms - Caneel Bay, Scotts Bay and Turtle Bay. The rooms in the Caneel Bay area are within walking distance of the the Caneel and the Sugar Mill dining rooms, the front desk, the facilities for water sports and the gift shop; the Turtle and Scotts Bay rooms are within walking distance of the Turtle Bay Estate House dining room, at the other end of the property.  We had asked for the least expensive room, assuming that the charge ($195 a person a day, when we were there) was still steep enough to guarantee gracious accommodations. What we got was a very small room in a nameless complex that we later discovered had been converted from staff housing. It was set back perhaps a half mile from the beach, and had a view only of the tennis courts. The walls were so thin that we were serenaded from the start by our neighbor, who was afflicted with a relentless cough. In the mornings, this sound alternated with the gentle ping of tennis balls being swatted back and forth. I took to trying to guess the quality of the players by the number of bounces and the resonance of the hits.  The wall of our room was decorated with a framed shag rug, vaguely abstract in design and nondescript in color. We soon discovered that we were not alone in finding it distasteful. On our third morning, we came back to our room after breakfast and discovered the head of housekeeping directing one of his employees to remove it. When I asked what had prompted the switch, he looked at me as if I were crazy. ''They're terrible looking,'' he said. ''Should have been removed a long time ago.''  Fortunately we never found out what replaced the rug. I had pleaded with one of the reservation managers, and she ultimately managed to find us another room, near the Caneel Bay dining room, at $230 a day. This room was large and bright and airy; it was a few feet from the water, and we could see the beach through the shady sea grape trees. Our spirits lifted as soon as we made the switch. The room was decorated in muted colors, and there were twin beds, a small table with two comfortable chairs and a breezy balcony with deck furniture. A ceiling fan kept the air moving. 1 2 3 NEXT PAGE > 
