19820413
The owner of The New York Post, Rupert Murdoch, said yesterday that he would be willing to buy The Daily News in an effort to keep both newspapers publishing. Their present competition, he said, is ''a dance of death which must end with the disappearance of one or both newspapers.''  The Tribune Company of Chicago, which owns The News, quickly attacked the proposal as ''a transparent attempt to destroy and shut down'' the paper. It reaffirmed its intention to have Joe L. Allbritton, a financier in Texas and Washington, take over The News and said he was ''making progress'' toward that goal.  Mr. Allbritton, who is asking the paper's unions to agree by April 25 to cut $85 million from The News's payroll, said he would agree to the unions' request to resume the talks he suspended Thursday night after they suggested that Mr. Murdoch would be better able than he to save both papers. He said consideration of the Murdoch plan ''would only delay completion of my negotiations and force The News to continue its growing losses before ultimately shutting down anyway.''  The leaders of the 11 unions met briefly with Mr. Murdoch yesterday and indicated afterward that they believed his action had given them some leverage in the bargaining. The Tribune Company, a communications concern, said it would shut The News if the unions and Mr. Allbritton could not reach agreement, an assertion the unions took as an unacceptable ultimatum.  Mr. Murdoch acquired The Post in 1977 and began a vigorous but costly campaign to overtake The News. He said that, despite gains in circulation and advertising, The Post lost close to $20 million last year and would lose that much again thus year. The News has said it lost $12 million last year, and prospective purchasers were told that the losses this year could be between $30 million and $50 million. The News had gross revenues of $350 million last year, triple those of The Post.  Mr. Murdoch proposed putting the papers under common ownership, with the unions agreeing to immediate cost cuts equal to the operating losses. He suggested that a merger would save more jobs at the two papers than would any other plan. There are 3,800 full-time and 1,200 part-time jobs at The News and 1,250 full-time and 250 part-time positions at The Post.  Under the ''me too'' provisions of most of the union contracts at The Post, The News and The New York Times, concessions made by the unions at one paper must be matched at the others. Thus the unions face the risk of making concessions to all three papers and then having The News die anyway.  Mr. Allbritton said that before the talks were suspended he had not sought any substantial concessions that would be subject to the ''me too'' clauses. Officials of The News have said that part of what they termed their excess costs was the result of arbitration awards and work practices specific to their plants.  Mr. Murdoch said The News and The Post could be produced at a single, new $150 million printing plant with reduced manning schedules that would make costs competitive with the suburban newspapers. He did not specify from where the $150 million would come. He said employees would have long-term job guarantees and could hold up to half the stock in the new company.  Aides to Mr. Murdoch said they believed that a purchase of The News by The Post could survive a challenge based on Federal antitrust laws. Those laws generally bar acquisitions that sharply decrease competition, but they grant a special status to provably failing companies. Advisers to Mr. Murdoch also said that the New York newspaper market includes not just the three major city papers but the suburban dailies as well and that a merger would have to be analyzed in terms of its impact on that broader market.  Other Federal merger statutes, however, require a Justice Department review and could create delays the Tribune Company would be unwilling to risk, particularly when a publisher is involved who has worked so hard to defeat The News.  In his statement yesterday, Stanton R. Cook, president of the Tribune Company, noted that Mr. Murdoch had not expressed any interest when The News was put up for sale in December and was now expressing that interest only by press release. ''This is indeed a curious approach, even for Mr. Murdoch, if one is really seeking to acquire a property,'' Mr. Cook said.  George E. McDonald, president of a coalition of newspaper unions, the Allied Printing Trades Council, said his group was eager to resume the talks with Mr. Allbritton but still needed to see the letter of intent to buy The News that the financier had signed with the Tribune Company, and the figures from which the loss projections were derived. The union leader indicated he did not believe that The News would be shut if no deal was struck by April 30, when Mr. Allbritton's option to purchase expires.  Illustrations: photo of Rupert Murdoch 
