19860217
PERHAPS the best way to enjoy ''Americathon '86'' at the New School on Sunday would have been to stay at home. It was after all a radio program - an exploration of contemporary American music broadcast by WNYC-FM and stretching from 1 in the afternoon till long past 10 at night. There were 13 composers on the program and a lot of talk by them as well - most of it efforts to fend off less than incisive questions from an interviewer laboring mightily to fill dead airspace between stage setups. One longed for a few domestic luxuries -a switch to turn or a trip to the beer cooler or bathroom to break the tedium.  Still, given the superfluities and the slightly deadening marathon atmosphere, one sensed the strong musical profile of a generation impatient with European tradition and confident in its search for new life from new roots. If there was an exception, it was Morton Feldman's five piano pieces from the early postwar years, which occupied a delicate world of silence far removed from the music that surrounded it on Sunday. Mr. Feldman's fragile little exercises in understatement - beautifully played by Nils Vigeland - functioned at cool, uninhabited altitudes, seemingly untouched by either European classicism or American pop.  The music of Bob Telson and Mikel Rouse - with their inventive meter changes and raucous electronic sonorities - seemed, on the other hand, a drawing together of rock music's instrumentation and energy with the more rigorous intellectual inventions of modern European music. Mr. Rouse's small pop combo wrestled with some very difficult rhythmic patterns in ''Full Thrust,'' ''Quick Thrust'' and ''N 1''; Mr. Telson's music from his ''Gospel at Colonus'' and ''Warrior Ant'' happily entered the styles of rock, salsa and gospel without a thought as to where popular music ends and the concert stage begins.  There was also music by William Bolcom - a song, ''Black Max,'' and piano music from his ''Etudes'' and ''Ghost Rags.'' The keyboard pieces, in their more elegant way, offered similar cross-pollinations between new energy and older sophistication. The harmonic expansions in two rags - ''Graceful Ghost'' and ''Dream Shadows'' - were wonderfully subtle while never sapping the vitality of the form.  At the end, Bonnie Barnett's ''AmericaHum'' elicited a joyful, vibrating, therapeutic noise from the audience - and presumably listeners at home. John Musto and Steve Blier were the pianists in the Bolcom. Nancy Shear moderated. 
