19820216
The new Mid-Manhattan Library, a spacious complex of airy rooms, open stacks and bright colors, will be formally opened to the public Thursday.  The library is the central resource center for the 82 branches of the New York Public Library, which serves Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island. It provides collections and services that are not available elsewhere in the New York Public Library system, or that are available more in depth there than elsewhere.  The library, which has been opening to the public in fits and starts for a year, is in the old Arnold Constable department store building at Fifth Avenue and 40th Street. It appeals particularly to people who work in midtown and who come in by the hundreds at lunchtime to browse through the huge ground floor popular library section. There are sometimes up to 100 copies of a best-selling fiction or nonfiction book here.  Advantage of Open Shelves  One of the advantages of Mid-Manhattan is that it is almost directly across from the main research library at Fifth Avenue and 42d Street. This creates a kind of urban campus for scholars or students who, failing to find a book or a periodical in one building, can cross the avenue and try at the other. Unlike the main research library, Mid-Manhattan has open shelves and books that can be taken out.  ''We try to get the scholar to begin here in the open shelves; we have the basic journals and indexes and we encourage browsing.'' said Robert C. Sheehan, the librarian who heads the history and social sciences department at Mid-Manhattan.  Mid-Manhattan has actually been in existence since 1970. With considerably fewer books than the current collection of more than half a million volumes and subscriptions to 1,000 periodicals, it was housed around the corner at 8 East 40th Street. For the last year, the books and other materials have been moved into the renovated quarters without -the library staff states with pride -having to close for a single day. As each section was completed, it was opened to the public, with an estimated 3,000 people coming in every day during renovation.  The final moves are taking place this week in time for the opening Thursday, which Mayor Koch has proclaimed New York Public Library Day. There will be formal dedication ceremonies at 10:30 A.M. as part of a two-day open house that begins at 9 A.M. Thursday and goes on until 9 P.M. and continues Friday from 10 A.M. until 6 P.M.  There is a spacious, modern feeling to the building, which was renovated by Giorgio Cavaglieri. The walls are white but the areas are color-coded by the use of bright carpets and matching chairs - royal blue for history and social sciences, bright red for science and business, and yellow and orange for literature, language and art.  The ground floor has an area for the blind and the disabled with machines that perform virtual miracles. There are Kurzweil Reading Machines, capable of translating the printed word into synthetic speech - and thus making the library's entire collection available to the blind. Librarians are there to run training sessions on how to use these machines.  For the partly blind, there are television-like terminals that can magnify a printed letter until it is two inches high. There are also tape recorders and braille writers so that blind scholars can take notes. Job Center Was Saved  Also on the ground floor is a job information center that was recently threatened with closing because of Reagan Administration budget cuts. It was saved last week, after the General Accounting Office in Washington ruled that the Administration had impounded funds already appropriated by Congress and meant for projects such as these in libraries throughout the country.  The job center, which librarians say has the largest collection of job-reference and circulation materials open to the public, is used by about 200 people a day who are interested in getting jobs or changing careers. Librarians here act as guidance counselors, steering people to applicable reference material and giving them tips on how to write resumes and look for jobs.  The library also has an extensive law library, subscriptions to about 850 science periodicals as well as audio film strips and reels of microfilm and microfiche. It also says it has the largest, openshelf education section open to the public anywhere.  The library will be open Monday through Thursday, from 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. and Friday and Saturday from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.  Illustrations: photo of woman using magnifying machine photo of library visitors photo of man checking information center 
