19811217
Most wallcoverings can only be hung on relatively smooth walls that have few, if any, irregularities because even small bumps, cracks, and rough spots that are not smoothed out or filled in will show through on the finished job after the material is up. Now, however, there is a cushion-backed vinyl wallcovering available that can be put up over rough or irregular interior ''problem'' walls without having the irregularities in that wall show through on the finished surface. The cushion backing not only enables this vinyl material to bridge defects and cover rough spots, it also helps to absorb noise and even adds a certain amount of thermal insulation to that wall. Called Paris Wall, and distributed in this country (it is made in France) by Forbo North America, Inc., 218 W. Orange Street, Lancaster, Pa. 17603, it is sold through home centers and building supply outlets and has an embossed three-dimensional surface finish with a clear coating that makes it highly resistant to staining and exceptionally easy to clean. Suitable for use over such previously impossible-to-cover wall surfaces as cinder block, ceramic tile, grooved wood paneling and cracked plaster or drywall, Paris Wall is waterproof and fire resistant (it has a Class A fire rating), so it is particularly useful for renovating kitchen, bathroom and laundry room walls - as well as hallways, playrooms and similar areas which get hard wear. It can even be used inside bathroom tub/shower enclosures since water won't harm it (as long as seams are properly cemented down so water can't run behind it). In the kitchen you can use it on the backsplash area behind the stove or around the sink to create a soilresistant, easily cleaned surface that will withstand the hard wear these work areas are subject to. In addition, both Paris Wall and the special adhesive used to put it up are highly resistant to mildew, so there is no need to worry about installing it in places where frequent dampness can often cause problems with other wallcoverings. The material comes in rolls that measure 31-1/2 inches wide and 9-1/2 feet long - enough to cover about 20 square feet of wall area when you allow for the normal amount of waste. It sells for between $20 and $23 per roll (the easiest way to determine the number of rolls needed is to measure the area to be covered, then divide by 20). The special adhesive required will cover about 40 to 50 square feet per quart, so you will need about one quart of adhesive for every two rolls of material being hung. Seven patterns are available, in a total of 18 different colors or shades: there is a brick pattern that comes in four different colors, a floral design that looks like hand-painted tiles that also comes in four colors, three colors of a small hexagonal-shaped tile design, three pastel shades of a leaf pattern on random size rectangles, two shades of a semi-solid texture design, a tan colored cork design, and a tan-and-white design that looks like cane. The edges of each roll are factory trimmed, so strips can be neatly butted together as they are installed - the only trimming required is along the top and bottom of the wall. With normal care in installation, the seams will be almost invisible when the job is done, and since the adhesive is applied to the wall, rather than to the back of the wallcovering, putting the material up is in many ways even easier than putting up regular wallcoverings. You don't have fold or handle paste-covered long strips that tend to stick to everything they touch. Before hanging any wallcovering - including Paris Wall - all wax, dirt, dust and grease must be removed in order to insure good bond. Also, make certain that surface over which you are applying it is sound. Remove all loose or flaking paint, and remove all old wallpaper or other wallcoverings before you start to hang this new material. Otherwise when these materials let go, they may take the new material off with them. For the same reason, when putting the material up over a ceramic tile wall, make sure all tiles are solidly bonded to the wall and fill in any places where tiles are actually missing (Paris Wall will bridge minor imperfections, but very large cracksa and holes should be filled in or repaired before you start). Before hanging the first strip - usually in a corner - you have to establish a plumb (vertical) line as a guide by using a weighted string or plumb line. Drive a small nail into the wall up near the ceiling and 30 inches out from the corner, then coat the string with chalk by rubbing it with some chalk held in one hand. Tie the string to the nail, then tie a small weight to the bottom end. Let this hang till it stops swinging, then hold the bottom end of the string tight against the wall with one hand while you snap the stretched line against the wall with the other hand. This will leave a chalked line on the wall that will serve as a guide for the first strip. The wallcovering is 31-1/2 inches wide, so there will be 1-1/2 inches left to fold around the corner. Now cut the first roll of material to length, allowing an extra inch or so at the top to be trimmed off after the strip is hung. Then start applying the adhesive to the wall, using a short-nap paint roller and a roller pan. The adhesive must be allowed to dry until tacky before actually putting the material up. This takes anywhere from 10 to 15 minutes on most surfaces, but on glazed ceramic tile it may take up to 30 minutes for the adhesive to become tacky. The vinyl is then pressed into place so that its edge lines up with the chalked line on the wall. Smooth it into place so that the excess folds around the corner, but to insure a neat fold in the corner, you will have to score the back with a sharp knife (the kind that uses disposable razor-like blades is best for this). When scoring for this corner fold, do NOT cut all the way through to the face side, just score the back side. Fold the material back on itself so you can use a yardstick or similar straightedge to guide the knife when you do this. Smooth the material onto the wall with a regular wallpaper smoothing brush, working from the middle of the strip out to the edges with a series of up and down strokes that move diagonally out to the edges. Make sure there are no air bubbles left underneath, and bear in mind that if the strip is not accurately aligned you can pull it off and re-hang it. Excess adhesive that oozes out around the edges should be wiped off promptly with a wet sponge, after which the excess at the top can be trimmed off by using a straightedge and a knife along the ceiling line. Hang the second and subsequent rolls in the same manner, butting each one against the one previously installed.  Illustrations: series of photos showing wall covering installation 
