19991111
 Review / Film: `Anywhere But Here' Starts as Road Movie, Becomes a Star Vehicle --- It's a Tough Week for Religion At the Movies: Dull `Dogma' And a Ludicrous `Messenger'   By By Joe Morgenstern, The Wall Street Journal,  Nov 12, 1999  It's such a treat to see Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman as mother and daughter in "Anywhere But Here" that you may not notice for a while, or care all that much once you do, how little the surrounding movie adds up to. Wayne Wang's direction and Alvin Sargent's adaptation have reduced the stirring subtleties of Mona Simpson's novel to a cheerful pretext for a pair of performances. But what performances they are -- a volatile one by Ms. Sarandon, who hasn't been this funny since "Bull Durham," balanced by a grave, tender one by Ms. Portman, who fulfills the promise of her remarkable feature debut in "The Professional" (after enduring the literal defacement of dumb Kabuki makeup in "The Phantom Menace").  For 14-year-old Ann, the love bestowed by her mother, Adele, is a blessing not merely mixed but befuddling. That's because Adele plays the child more often than not, acting out her cockeyed dreams of wealth and glamour while Ann watches in adoring dismay. "Anywhere But Here" starts out as a road movie. Adele uproots herself and her daughter from small-town Wisconsin, where Ann feels happy and secure, and heads for Beverly Hills, where they're just two lookie-loos struggling to make a new life. (In one access of naughty audacity, Adele pretends to be interested in buying a mansion.) Soon, though, the movie settles into another rhythm, as Adele comes to reluctant terms with reality, and Ann becomes her own young woman, independent and strong.  The story isn't as fresh as it was when the novel was published 13 years ago. Nor does it operate convincingly in the present; there's more of a contemporary feel to "Tumbleweeds," another mother-and-daughter comedy drama that's scheduled to open later this month. But the stars are sufficient unto themselves, even in scenes showing nothing but their faces against plain walls. (No disrespect intended toward Roger Deakins's fine cinematography.) Ms. Sarandon is almost too beautiful, smart and grounded for the role, yet she makes us believe the quivering terror that lurks beneath Adele's theatrical exuberance. Ms. Portman's character is anti-theatrical -- Ann's sanity depends on self-containment -- and she plays it to quiet perfection, with a physical beauty that's disarmingly pure, and a clarity that leaves you breathless. These two actresses deserve a better movie, but, just as Mona Simpson meant us to conclude at the end of her tumultuous tale, this mother and daughter deeply deserve one another.   
