19810622
The witch doctor was imported from Uganda to help the champion. The witch doctor, it was discovered, is a Catholic with six children. On the surface, it would seem that any boxing card with Sugar Ray Leonard, Thomas Hearns, Pipino Cuevas and Tony Ayala Jr. would do well. But like the witch doctor, the Thursday night closed-circuit show from the Houston Astrodome - dubbed ''The Welterweight Astrowars'' - is perceived as a mere publicity stunt, not the movie, but the coming attractions. The public does not buy tickets to coming attractions.  True, Leonard, the World Boxing Council welterweight champion, and Hearns, the World Boxing Association welterweight champion, will be in the same ring on the same night in title fights. But they're not fighting each other.  Leonard and Hearns are scheduled to meet in a superfight Sept. 16. Thursday night's is show is to build for that, and few people other than the promoter, Bob Arum, give the two stars any chance of losing.  Not even a promoter with 125 almost-empty closed-circuit televison sites -including Madison Square Garden -would dare suggest Hearns could lose to his challenger, one Pablo Baez, a Dominican who has been fighting out of Los Angeles for three years with mediocre results. Baez has a 14-8-2 record and has won only three of his last seven fights, and six of his last 15. Only contenders ranked in the top 10 are allowed to fight for W.B.A. or W.B.C. titles. The W.B.A. didn't include Baez in its top 10 until two months after he signed to meet Hearns. Baez deserves a title chance as much as the witch doctor does. And the witch doctor probably would have a better chance against the undefeated Hearns, who Arum said, ''scared off the other contenders.''  However, Arum has been insisting that Leonard, the biggest attraction in boxing, has little chance against Ayub Kalule, the Ugandan who lives in Denmark and is defending the W.B.A. junior middleweight championship.  ''I'm not wrong on this one,'' said Arum, who predicted Leon Spinks would run Larry Holmes out of the ring. ''Kalule is too big and too strong for Ray.''  Arum's only hope is this hard sell, to convince the public that Leonard has a chance of losing. It is a very hard sell, almost impossible, but not nearly so difficult as selling a line that Hearns might be in danger, or of selling a Cuevas fight against a 38-yearold Danish club fighter named Jorgen Hansen or an Ayala fight against Jerry Cheatham. Leonard, going for a second world title, is the main event Thursday night, but the public is looking on it as merely a preliminary to his fight with Hearns.  While Arum is, perhaps overconfidently, predicting a crowd of between 25,000 and 30,000 at the Astrodome, mainly because the Mexican-American population will come out to see its hero, Cuevas, the card has been dying around the country. At the Garden, only about 2,000 tickets have been sold, despite a live undercard.  Arum has been trying. He has sold the live gate to the Astrodome and most of the closed-circuit rights to Shelly Finkel, who has put together the group that will promote the Leonard-Hearns fight. But still, this is Arum's show, and several weeks ago he had Mogens Palle, the Danish promoter who manages Kalule, send a telegram to Jimmy Jacobs, the manager of the other 154-pound champ, Wilfred Benitez.  Palle offered a junior middleweight unification bout to Jacobs in Copenhagen this fall and asked that Benitez not take any fight in between. Kalule, he said, would also not fight, except for his ''tuneup'' with Leonard.  Arum said Palle was so anxious to take the fight ''because he knows Kalule can beat Leonard,'' the Danish promoter hardly bargained. While Leonard will get $2.5 million as the challenger, the champion will get a $125,000 purse - and the right to use the ring posts and his trunks for advertising.  Arum said Leonard would be giving away too much weight, that the 147-pound champion has mysteriously been training very lightly. Three times last week, Leonard did not spar at all in workouts and one of those days he trained only for a half-hour.  But Angelo Dundee, who co-trains Leonard with Janks Morton, said this was only because his fighter was already sharp. Dundee said Leonard was having no weight problems and, in fact, had been around 156-158 pounds.  Worse, Leonard has been acting like a man more interested in Hearns and eventually Marvin Hagler, the middlweight champion. ''I don't expect any trouble handling him,'' Leonard said of Kalule, whom he called ''no more than an advanced amateur.''  In selling Kalule to the public, Arum has the advantage of the Ugandan fighter's unbeaten - 36-0 - record in bouts not seen here. Leonard, however, has had access to videotapes of Kalule, and his assessment of the 154-pound champion should be more valid. Kalule may be undefeated, but after winning the title against the mediocre Japanese fighter, Masashi Kudo, in 1979, he has defended it only against such terrors as Steve Gregory, Emiliano Villa, Bushy Bester and Marijan Benes. In his last fight, he went 10 rounds to outpoint the Kansas journeyman, Pat Hallacy, who last month was knocked out in four rounds by the 18-year-old Ayala. Kalule is a right-hander who has been converted to southpaw.  Leonard had some difficulty with Larry Bonds, another southpaw, in March, but Bonds moved away from Leonard. Kalule will go right into Leonard's power. Kalule can box a bit and can take a punch and is tough. But anything he does, Leonard does better and quicker.  ''I don't want to take the blame if Leonard loses this fight,'' said Arum. He can always blame the witch doctor. 
