19821117
PITY the poor soul who coined the slogan ''red wine with red meat, white wine with white meat,'' for he obviously had never tasted game or experienced a fine red Burgundy with a roasted turkey on Thanksgiving Day. The slogan should be abandoned as a relic of yesteryear, the time before American consumers discovered how much wine could enhance a gastronomic occasion.  Sophisticated diners are more likely to drink red wine with turkey and virtually all other kinds of poultry, including such game birds as partridge or grouse, pheasant, woodcock, duck and goose. All these birds tend to be fully flavored and are often served with spicy stuffings and robust sauces that are best complemented by red wines.  This is not to suggest that certain white wines are inappropriate with such fare. A fine white Burgundy, ideally a Meursault, Corton-Charlemagne or Montrachet, can be an excellent if expensive accompaniment to poultry and game birds, and the same can be said of many American chardonnays, made from the same grape as white Burgundy.  Wines from the chardonnay grape, whether from France or the United States, are usually full-bodied, intensely flavored, crisply dry and superb with white meats of all kind, although I drink them almost exclusively with fish and usually opt for red wines with poultry.  In contemplating my Thanksgiving feast this year, I am tempted to revert to European wines, or at least to offer some European wines along with the American wines that I have advocated serving in the past because the holiday, after all, is uniquely American.  Yet the Pilgrims came to these shores from Europe and no doubt had knowledge of European wines. It is likely that they drank cider then; American wine making is believed not to have begun until years later. In the absence of precedent, therefore, European wines can certainly be justified for a modern Thanksgiving celebration.  Moreover, the economics of wine have changed in the last year, and now many good European wines are more attractively priced than premium American wines, reflecting the strength of the American dollar and the large supply of wine available for sale. Numerous good French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese wines can be had for less than $10 a bottle, a price that is roughly the minimum for the best chardonnays and cabernet sauvignons from California.  Because wine is at least as important as food at my table, I try to be more creative with my Thanksgiving repast. Instead of serving precisely the same courses year after year, from the turkey right through to the mince pie, I try to orchestrate the meal to accommodate a variety of wines.  This year I will serve a first course, in contrast to the Thanksgiving custom of abolishing the first course because of the vastness of the main course.  The meal will begin with mussels that have been marinated overnight in white wine, lemon juice, chopped parsley and freshly ground pepper. The cold mussels will be returned to their half-shells and served with a remoulade sauce, consisting mostly of mayonnaise and mustard spiced with tarragon and other seasonings. The tartness of the sauce and subtle flavor of the mussels will demand a well-chilled chardonnay from California or perhaps a Corton-Charlemagne or perhaps both, depending on the number of guests around the table.  The main course will be wild turkey obtained from one of the many purveyors of game in the metropolitan area. Wild turkey tends to be more succulent and flavorful than the domestic variety, and it no doubt is more representative of what the Pilgrims ate on the first Thanksgiving. Its stuffing will include raw oysters for an added flavor nuance.  With the bird there will be pureed acorn squash, pureed turnips, a casserole of creamed spinach with sauteed artichoke hearts and a Thanksgiving classic - creamed onions. The onions will be fresh from the market, and the cream sauce will be redolent with garlic.  Two wines will come with the main course, a red Burgundy and a pinot noir from California. I have not yet chosen the Burgundy, but it will probably be a Pommard, a Beaune or a Volnay. These come from the southern portion of the Burgundian Cote d'Or, the area called the Cote de Beaune, where the wines are slightly less robust and more elegant than those from the Cote de Nuits just to the north.  The dessert will be traditional: pumpkin pie and mince pie, providing an opportunity to serve a dessert wine, in this case a late-harvested Johannisberg riesling from California made from grapes that have been allowed to dry almost into raisins before picking. It is sweet and will be a superb match for the richness of the pies.  There will be a temptation to serve a red wine at this point, one of the late-harvested zinfandels occasionally produced in California. I have drunk them in the past with pumpkin pie and mince pie, and the combination is surprisingly complementary, for both the dessert and the wine are spicy.  No simple slogan could possibly apply to all the combinations of food and wine in my Thanksgiving feast, least of all ''red wine with red meat, white wine with white meat.'' Perhaps a new slogan should be adopted, something on the order of: ''Drink whatever pleases you, for rules are meant to be broken.''  The first Beaujolais nouveau of the 1982 vintage arrived in New York from France Monday morning, following its traditional release at 12:01 A.M. Nov. 15. It was carried aboard the Concorde by Jean-Francois Bouchard of Bouchard Pere et Fils, a leading producer, and was served at a brunch at the Plaza Hotel.  The Beaujolais nouveau of Sylvain Fessy, another producer, also arrived in time for tasting Monday, and a number of others had arrived by yesterday. All of the first shipments were in extremely limited quantities and were consumed in tastings by importers, retailers, restaurateurs and wine critics.  More substantial quantities will arrive aboard ships and will become available in stores and restaurants in early December. Because of the strength of the American dollar and the large supply of wine in Europe, prices of the new Beaujolais have remained relatively low, and several will be sold for less than $5 a bottle. 
