19990720
 Beyond Busing   By By Tamar Jacoby, The Wall Street Journal,  Jul 21, 1999  No one who lived through the 1970s can forget the busing wars: the irate mothers, the innocent-looking black children, the bitter white teenagers throwing bottles and screaming, "Niggers, go home!" Looking back a quarter century later, we'd like to think it was somehow worth it -- or, at the very least, that busing's failure taught us something. But the tragic irony is that busing turns out to have been largely irrelevant, a monumental distraction from the real progress we've made on race and from the task, as daunting as ever, of improving the school performance of impoverished black children.  Well-intentioned is almost a dirty word today, at least when applied to another era's social policy. But busing to achieve desegregation was an earnest and, it seemed at the time, even ingenious idea for speeding up black inclusion in the mainstream. Putting black kids at desks next to white kids would equalize their educational opportunities and eradicate their sense that they were second-class citizens. What's more, it was hoped, if we brought black and white children together early enough, their experience of each other would inoculate them against prejudice, and middle-class whites' goals and study habits might even rub off on their poorer classmates. With one easy stroke, society would eliminate bigotry and inequality. We now know that it was too good to be true. But looking back on the promise, it's easier to understand the arrogance with which supporters of busing thought they could upend and reorganize the lives of millions of families.  The venom generated in those years scarred the nation indelibly. Neither black nor white parents were particularly enthusiastic about busing; even the most liberal among them feared the hostility that might await their children at a distant school. Public opinion favored the end but not the means; polls showed more than 75% in favor of mixed schooling, and a matching three-quarters staunchly opposed to busing. And yet, despite this shared uncertainty, busing became the wedge issue of the '70s, deeply exacerbating the divide between blacks and whites. "I'll never forget the hatred I saw in those faces in Boston," psychologist Kenneth Clark said later. It didn't matter what white people told pollsters about integration. It didn't matter that many antibusing mothers were angrier at what they saw as an imperious, meddlesome judge than at the black children appearing in their neighborhoods. For Clark and millions of other blacks like him, the antibusing movement proved that white America was irredeemably racist.   
