19810228
With their number depleted by reassignment and retirement, the 18 to 20 judges in Manhattan Criminal Court are more hard pressed than ever to handle the 80,000 cases filed there each year, according to the court's administrative judges.  They are seeking additional judges and support workers, and the issue is scheduled to come before the joint Judiciary Committee of the State Legislature in public hearings on April 7 in Albany and May 1 in Manhattan.  The judges each handle, on average, 4,000 cases a year. In interviews, some of the judges complained that the high caseload often made them mere paper-pushers stamping court documents.  ''If you kind of let things go by the wayside,'' said Judge Joan B. Carey, the supervising judge of the court, ''the caseload will become so staggering that you accomplish nothing. Rather than averaging five or 10 minutes per case, you are forced to spend one or two minutes per case.''  To keep their calendars manageable, judges try to dispose of as many cases as possible each week. The most common method of accomplishing this is plea bargaining.  ''People think that plea bargaining has just materialized, but since 1920 it has been the most dominant method of disposing of cases,'' Judge Carey said.  Judges contend that it is the district attorney who decides to accept a plea to a reduced charge, while the judge simply determines the sentence.  ''We really take the heat unnecessarily,'' said Judge Martin Erdmann. Judge Carey says court administrators do not exert pressure on the judges to clear up their calendars. ''It's not so much a directive from the Office of Court Administration,'' she said. ''Judges know that in order to keep on top of the situation, in order to manage their calendars, a certain amount must be disposed of per day or per week.''  The load has been aggravated by the use of 18 Criminal Court judges as acting justices in State Supreme Court, where they handle felony cases. There are also seven vacancies, created by retirements, a death and a resignation. It generally takes several months for a prospective judge to go through the screening process involved in filling a vacancy; the Mayor's Committee on the Judiciary has 90 days to fill a vacancy.  Among the judges now wading through the Criminal Court caseload are four Civil Court judges and one Family Court judge. In a move designed to provide some relief, Mayor Koch last week nominated three lawyers - Ernest Bianchi, Stephen G. Crane and William J. Davis - to fill some of the vacancies.  In addition, the state's chief administrative judge, Herbert B. Evans, recently asked the Legislature to authorize the appointment of 22 more Criminal Court judges for New York City.  According to E. Leo Milonas, the deputy chief administrative judge for New York City courts, all of these judges would actually work in Criminal Court in the city's five boroughs if the Legislature also authorized the financing of 14 Court of Claims judgeships. Since judges in the Court of Claims have the authority to handle felony cases, they can alleviate the State Supreme Court caseload. Court Gets Misdemeanor Cases  The cases decided in Criminal Court are misdemeanors, such as loitering for the purpose of prostitution, minor assaults, theft of merchandise valued at less than $250, trespassing, gambling and jumping a turnstile at a subway station. These crimes are punishable by up to one year at Rikers Island, a $1,000 fine or both.  Criminal Court judges also handle violations, which are lesser offenses such as disorderly conduct. Such violations are punishable by up to 15 days in jail, a $250 fine or both.  In the three sections that handle all arraignments - on misdemeanor as well as felony charges - and take pleas to dispose of about half the cases that are filed in Criminal Court, a judge will generally handle 80 to 120 cases in a six-hour day.  In the six ''A.P.,'' or all-purpose, sections, where disputed pretrial issues are settled and pleas are taken, a light day might consist of 50 to 60 cases, while a heavy day could include up to 160 cases. An average load is about 100 cases.  The load is similar in Jury 1, which is called ''the trash bucket part'' by Judge Bernard J. Fried because all cases not disposed of in the preliminary stages end up there. Those cases are finally resolved through pleas or are sent to one of eight judges sitting in a trial section. Criminal History Is Given  When a defendant is called, a judge has before him a stack of papers that includes the defendant's criminal history, a biographical data sheet, the complaint and a control sheet that indicates what has happened in prior appearances - generally before other judges - in the case at hand.  If the papers have a blue cover, the judge knows that the defendant has been charged with a misdemeanor. If the cover is yellow, the charge is a felony that has not been sent to State Supreme Court.  Lawyers and court officers also provide the judge with capsulized versions of the particulars of a case. Thus, ''some kind of a conclusion'' is reached in a minute or two, Judge Jeffrey M. Atlas said. ''I'm drawing upon 20 years of my own experience,'' he added. ''And because my father was also a prosecutor before becoming a defense attorney, I grew up in the courts. Judges also have their own philosophies and beliefs about certain crimes.'' Dismissed Cases Restored  Last year after a series of cases had been dismissed by three judges, District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau of Manhattan appealed to the Appellate Term, which restored the cases and chastised the judges for dismissing cases ''for reasons of calendar congestion or judicial economy.''  A similar appeal is being prepared, according to Robert Holmes, the deputy chief of the Criminal Trial Division, because judges have dismissed cases when certain affidavits have not been promptly filed.  Some friction also exists between prosecutors and judges over the proper way to process the cases of repeat offenders. Since October 1979, Mr. Morgenthau's office has been making a special effort to try repeat offenders through a program called ''the misdemeanor trial program,'' or ''M.T.P.''  Mr. Holmes, who supervises the program, said the defendants, who are mainly charged with thefts, average 15 prior arrests. 'Lenient Sentencing' Cited  In quarterly progress reports filed last year with the State Division of Criminal Justice Services, the district attorneys complained of ''excessively lenient sentencing in M.T.P. cases and excessive delay in moving M.T.P. cases to trial.''  In the latest report, filed in January, Mr. Holmes said that ''trial capacity has been improved.'' Judge Carey said she hoped to ''beef up'' the trial capacity of the court this year. In 1980, 386 Criminal Court trials were held in Manhattan, about 100 more than the year before.  ''The answer is to increase the number of judges,'' Judge Carey said. 
