19850517
Jeffrey Katz learned a painful lesson about timing a few years ago. Mr. Katz, a 38-year-old real estate developer who is now completing his first large construction project in Manhattan, had converted an old garage in Greenwich Village to condominium apartments.  As bad luck would have it, however, the apartments came to the market at the bottom of the 1981-82 recession, when apartments were not selling well anywhere in the city. Mr. Katz was forced to cut his prices substantially. The project, he said, was far from a success.  ''The people who bought apartments there made more money than I did,'' he said.  Those hard-earned lessons carried over into Mr. Katz's next building, which he began working on at about the time that the Village project was being completed. The new project, a 197-unit condominium building at 75th Street and First Avenue, which is now nearly sold out after about eight months of marketing, was from its inception a product of Mr. Katz's heightened sense of timing.  The development of the building, called the Saratoga, also illustrates the dynamics of the Manhattan residential construction cycle at both the peak and the trough of its wave. Mr. Katz's experiences, meanwhile, show how the wave is - and is not - to be ridden.  The first piece of the timing puzzle at the Saratoga was the acquisition of the property, which was completed in 1981 and 1982 for less than $10 million from three different sellers. Here, the fact that the purchases were made during the recession became a benefit. It was a buyer's market.  ''People weren't yet intoxicated by what they thought they owned,'' Mr. Katz said. ''That was yet to come.''  Putting together the three parcels, however, immediately presented another timing challenge. A city zoning line ran right through the middle of the newly assembled plot. Applying to the City Planning Commission for a zoning variance, in order to build one large building on the full site -which was the original plan - would have added at least an extra year to the project. It was a delay, Mr. Katz felt, that would have put the $46 million building in the thick of what he saw as a pending construction boom, and thus an increase in competition, on the East Side.  The answer was to split the building down the zoning line. The single large building evolved into a 40-story tower on the First Avenue side of the property, which is zoned R10, and a more squat 14-story wing immediately behind, on the 75th Street side, which is zoned R8. Although the two parts are connected, they are from both the city's and the developer's perspective, different.  From a marketing viewpoint, the split created a situation in which the two sections of the buildings could be differentiated, to capture two different kinds of East Side apartment shoppers. In the tower would be concentrated the higher-priced apartments - the larger units with better views, and balconies. The 75th Street side would be the units for buyers concentrating on value, or those with greater budget limitations.  Indeed, the urgent sense of timing and the lessons of Greenwich Village were felt throughout the marketing of the Saratoga. Last fall, when the building had not been completed, and the elevators had not been installed, the developer decided that the sales office should open anyway. The decision required apartment shoppers to ride the construction lift and wear hard hats on their way to the 14th-floor model apartments.  The apartments were also consciously priced below what the market was believed to be, so that price cuts - which real estate consultants say can be a psychological stigma to a marketing program - could be avoided. In the eight months of sales, they rose from an average of about $311 a square foot to nearly $360 a square foot.  The result of all this was that the building entered the market with less competition than it would have had if the pace of its development had been slower and more deliberate.  According to Yale Robbins, a real estate consultant and publisher of housing data, ''surprisingly few big jobs'' were completed on Manhattan's East Side last year. ''But a lot are coming up this year,'' Mr. Robbins added. Indeed, in Manhattan below 96th Street, 9,000 apartment units are under construction for completion this year and next.  Among those that have recently begun - or are about to begin - marketing in the immediate area of the Saratoga are Hampton House, a 190-unit condominium project at 79th Street and First Avenue, and the Belgravia, at 79th Street between Lexington and Park Avenues. Many other buildings are under construction in the 60's and 70's.  At the Saratoga, where a dozen apartments remain to be sold, prices ranged from about $140,000 for a studio, when sales began, to nearly $700,000 for the most expensive three-bedroom apartment - a 15th-floor unit that also features a 4,500-square-foot terrace. Buyers, the first of whom began moving in last week, were mostly in their middle 30's to early 50's. Architect for the project was Peter Claman of Schuman Lichtenstein, Claman & Efron. 
