20020611
 Redrawing the Lines: Bush's Rules Czar Brings Long Knife To New Regulations --- `Smart' Style Helps to Disarm Critics While Developing Business-Friendly Agenda --- Outdoing EPA on Emissions   By By Stephen Power and Jacob M. Schlesinger, The Wall Street Journal,  Jun 12, 2002  In the seven months that followed, Dr. [John D. Graham] rejected 20 more rules, returning them to the issuing agencies. In his first four-year term, President [Bill Clinto]'s OIRA returned 12. In his last three years in office, OIRA returned "exactly zee-ro," Dr. Graham likes to say, forming thumb and forefinger into a circle.  The records show that Dr. Graham and his aides have -- as critics predicted -- held regular meetings with corporate lobbyists who oppose pending rules. On Feb. 8, a group of OIRA officials met with a coalition of power companies uneasy about an EPA plan for protecting fish near power plants by requiring expensive cooling towers. Prodded by Dr. Graham, the EPA ended up granting companies the greater flexibility they sought. But that decision came only after Dr. Graham met, on Feb. 7, with Riverkeeper Inc., the New York environmental group that brought the lawsuit forcing the rule.  Messrs. Graham and [Mitchell Daniels] say the decision is a good example of letting science shape rules. NHTSA officials say it shows that science can be a subjective matter. They complain that Dr. Graham didn't cite the agency's studies concluding that antilock brakes, contrary to expectations, failed to reduce fatalities. Instead, Dr. Graham referred to an Insurance Institute for Highway Safety study suggesting that vehicles with antilock brakes were 4% to 9% less likely to have a fatal crash, a result that the author himself says was "not statistically significant." Dr. Graham admits that weakness but says the study also suggested that more data becoming available soon could produce a different result. "We don't have to decide today," he says. "Two years from now, the information could be statistically significant."   
