19810713
TRAISKIRCHEN, Austria, July 10— Jerzy Gruszecki, 28 years old, is an auto mechanic by trade, but the only work he does these days consists of sweeping the floor for an hour each afternoon in the cramped dormitory where he lives with his wife.  The rest of the time he sits with men his age on benches in the sun, talking about his homeland. Otherwise he goes for walks or kicks a tattered soccer ball around the fields surrounding the drab camp that has been his home for five months.  Mr. Gruszecki is one of thousands of young Poles who this year decided to flee the joblessness, the food shortages and the political uncertainties of their homeland by going on vacations to Austria or other Western countries and then seeking refugee status in order to begin new lives in Australia, Canada or the United States.  Officials in Austria and West Germany say many young Poles in the West are waiting for the results of the emergency Communist Party congress that begins Tuesday in Warsaw before making a decision. Tighter Controls Feared  Poles can travel to two Western countries, Sweden and Austria, without visas or travel permits other than passports, which the Warsaw Government now readily issues.  But as the number of refugees increases, there is growing fear that Warsaw may tighten controls or that Czechoslovakia might hinder free passage.  In the first five months of this year, 3,471 Poles have come to the camp outside this small Austrian village on the rolling plains 20 miles south of Vienna. Only 394 arrived in the last five months of last year.  And although it is happening at a less dramatic pace, the numbers are increasing in West Berlin, at the refugee camp in Marienfelde, and in West Germany, at a camp in Friedland, where in a recent eightday period 1,400 Polish youths reportedly arrived. A Familiar Destination  Traiskirchen has seen similar exoduses in the past: In 1956 the former Austro-Hungarian Military Academy and Boarding School became a makeshift refugee camp when Austria was overrun by 200,000 Hungarians fleeing their homeland after Russian tanks put down the rebellion. In 1968, about 100,000 Czechoslovaks arrived after Soviet troops occupied Prague, crushing Czechoslovakia's brief experiment in political liberalization.  ''We have room here, officially, for about 1,500 refugees,'' said Karl Radek, a tall white-haired man of 64 who has headed the camp's 85-member staff for 18 years. ''Now we have about 2,500 here. There are estimates of about 100,000 Poles who are now staying in Western Europe, on vacation or working. They will soon have to make a decision.''  Mr. Radek said about 200 Poles a month showed up at Traiskirchen last year. By May, the number had risen to 900 a month, and by last week, about 150 to 200 were arriving each day.  Unlike Hungarian and Czech refugees, most of those fleeing Poland today are between 18 and 35 years old, many single, others with wives and small children. They arrive in delapidated cars - old Czechoslovak Skodas or East German Trabants - or by train, with backpacks containing all they have brought along, transforming the camp into something like an overcrowded youth hostel. U.S. Is Getting More Requests  Rudolph Bell, the American consul in Vienna and the American refugee coordinator for Austria, said the number of Polish applicants for refugee status jumped to 707 in the first four months of this year, compared with 252 in the last four months of 1980.  ''We anticipate that the number will continue to rise,'' Mr. Bell said. ''We just don't know to what level. The state Department is aware of the problem, and the Congress is as well.''  Most of the Poles spend five to six months at the camp before a decision is made on their status and ultimate destination. They take their meals at wooden tables in sparsely furnished eating halls and sleep in rows of bunk beds, without linen, that line the camp's large gray dormitories.  The camp has its own workshops, a kindergarten, school and infirmary and its own police department. On a warm and sunny day recently children played games outside the dilapidated buildings while grown-ups sat around doing what they do most days during their stay: waiting. No Work in Poland  On a low stone wall, across from the camp gate, a group of young men sat, still tired from the long trip on the Chopin Express from Warsaw to Vienna. A 28-year-old electrical engineer from Gdansk, who refused to reveal his name because he said he would go back if efforts to settle in the West failed, said economic pressures and the inability to get work, even for someone with advanced technical training, led him to leave.  ''There's no work because there's nothing to work with,'' he said. ''People just aren't doing anything. So word is going around, go to Austria. I know others who did it. If it doesn't work, I'll go back, provided nothing happens in the meantime,'' an oblique reference to the Communist Party congress.  A gray-haired man, who refused to give his name or hometown, said he was in Chicago and New York from 1977 to 1979 but returned to Poland to be near his 22-year-old daughter and her husband. Then, he said, he decided to leave despite family ties.  ''They won't talk to you about politics,'' he said of the refugees in the camp, ''but that's all they talk among themselves, from morning to night.''  ''Their views are mixed,'' he added. ''Some say the Russians will come to Poland. Others say no. Some believe there will be political change, others disagree. But one thing they all have, and that's a mistrust of Poland's future.'' 
