19820104
Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist of the Supreme Court went home yesterday from a Washington hospital after a one-week stay for a flare-up of a chronic low back problem and after reportedly experiencing a serious adverse reaction to a drug prescribed for his backache before his admission to the hospital.  But as Justice Rehnquist convalesces at his home in Bethesda, Md., and has begun taking another drug to relieve his pain, there is confusion about not only when he will return to the bench but what has happened to him in recent weeks.  This issue of the ailment of a Supreme Court Justice involves many factors. It touches on the public's right to know about the health of an individual who makes public policy; the privacy of the health of an individual, and hospital policy. The information made available until now has been as baffling as it is elucidating.  The 57-year-old Justice has declined to discuss his health, saying on Thursday, ''I'm leaving it to my doctor to deal with the media.'' No Response From Doctor  But the doctor caring for him in the hospital, Dr. Hugo V. Rizzoli, has not returned calls left with his answering service over the weekend and only partial answers have come from the spokesman for the hospital, Dr. Dennis O'Leary, the physician who handled inquiries after the shooting of President Reagan.  Justice Rehnquist entered George Washington University Hospital last Sunday. On Wednesday, he had a drug reaction that produced ''disturbances in mental clarity'' and ''distorted'' his perceptions of reality for about two hours, Dr. O'Leary, the hospital's dean for clinical affairs, said in an interview.  Dr. O'Leary declined to elaborate on the description, and so just what had happened to Justice Rehnquist remained unclear. However, Dr. O'Leary was quick to provide reassurances that Justice Rehnquist's ''mental status is absolutely clear.''  The confusion about when Justice Rehnquist will return to work stems from conflicting statements from the spokesmen for the Supreme Court and the hospital. Getting Back to Work  Dr. O'Leary said that he expected Justice Rehnquist to be on the bench when the Supreme Court returned from a four-week holiday on Jan. 11. But Barrett McGurn, a Court spokesman, told The Associated Press that he did not know when Justice Rehnquist would return to work.  Then there was further confusion that resulted after Dr. O'Leary declined as a matter of hospital policy to name the drug that he said had caused Justice Rehnquist's problem. The policy, Dr. O'Leary said, had applied to all patients at George Washington University Hospital in the past. He said the policy was based in part on complaints from pharmaceutical companies when drugs were named.  But it is an unusual policy. No such policy exists at New York University Medical Center and the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, according to spokesmen for those institutions, who said they would release the name of a drug under similar circumstances.  It is not yet clear how much effect the drug, whatever it is, may have had on the Justice before the reported withdrawal problems. Court observers have noticed that Justice Rehnquist has had slurred speech and difficulty in enunciating long words. One lawyer who observed Justice Rehnquist hearing cases in the Supreme Court during the fall, and who did not wish to be identified, said yesterday that he noticed that Justice Rehnquist spoke in ''a halting, stammering'' manner, although his questions were appropriate. 'The Drug Is Not Alcohol'  Earlier news reports describing Justice Rehnquist's speech and adverse reaction to the unnamed drug have created an impression among some people who were talking about the case, including physicians, that he suffered from delirium tremens (D.T.'s) as a withdrawal effect of alcohol.  Dr. O'Leary expressed surprise when he was informed of this reaction, although, on reflection, he said that he understood how it could have arisen as a result of not naming the drug.  Then, when asked speci fically about the possibility that the drug was alcohol, Dr. O'Leary said, ''The drug is not alcohol and is not anarcotic.''  There was even more confusion over Dr. O'Leary's lack of specific details about Justice Rehnquist's medical course. Recurrent Back Problem  According to Dr. O'Leary, Mr. Rehnquist's low back problem has ''waxed and waned'' since it began several years ago and he was a patient in George Washington University Hospital for that condition in 1977. Dr. O'Leary said that he did not know the specific underlying cause of the back problem, which might be due to herniated disks or degenerative bone disease or other conditions.  At times the back is fine and at other times the Justice finds it ''pretty annoying, aggravating an d uncomforta ble,'' said Dr. O'Leary,who added that Justice Rehnquist had been tre ated not only by Dr. Rizzoli but also by another Washington-area p hysician who had prescribed the unnamed drug.  However, surprisingly, in light of the prominence of the patient, Dr. O'Leary said that he did not know the name of that physician, when he began prescribing the drug, or when he increased the dosage.  Nevertheless, Dr. O'Leary contended that both the choice and the dosage of the drug were appropriate for the condition. The Speech Difficulty  Dr. O'Leary, when asked if he was certain that Justice Rehnquist was taking the drug in recent months when he was observed having difficulty with his speech, said that he was not certain. ''Presumably he was,'' Dr. O'Leary said.  The doctor's response leaves open the question whether the drug was responsible for Justice Rehnquist's slurred speech or whether it was due to some other health problem.  There is also confusion about whether Justice Rehnquist knew about a problem with slurred speech. Dr. O'Leary, when asked why the drug reaction was not detected earlier by Mr. Rehnquist's doctors or by the Justice himself, said that was ''an imponderable - I don't know the answer.''  About mid-December, Dr. O'Leary said, Mr. Rehnquist ''consulted with Dr. Rizzoli's staff,'' who decided to ''sharply curtail the dosage'' of the unnamed drug because he was ''not getting good relief from it.'' About five or six days later, Mr. Rehnquist was admitted to George Washington University Hospital to re-evaluate the medical management of the low back pain.  Dr. O'Leary said that the side effect that Justice Rehnquist experienced was a well-known one that could occur by itself and could happen within nine days of curtailing the dosage. The reaction, he said, occurred on the eighth or ninth day. Managing side effects is a common problem for doctors because all drugs have potential hazards as well as benefits.  ''Proper management calls for putting the patient back on the original drug'' and then reducing the dosage gradually until it can be discontinued, Dr. O'Leary said.  Experts in low back pain and pharmacology who were interviewed said that any number of drugs could cause such a reaction. High on their list were such tranquilizers as Valium, which is also prescribed commonly as a muscle relaxant.  Mr. Rehnquist was taking small doses of the unnamed drug at the time he left the hospital yesterday, Dr. O'Leary said. Meanwhile, he is also taking another unnamed drug.  As to the prognosis of Mr. Rehnquist's back problem, Dr. O'Leary said, ''Chances are that it is not going to totally go away forever.'' However, he added, ''it is not that overwhelming a problem to figure out a drug regimen which controls the pain and permits him to function normally.''  Perhaps there is good reason for not naming the drugs used. But, on the other hand, there might have been less confusion if the full set of facts had been stated clearly from the beginning.  Illustrations: Photo of Justice William H. Rehnquist 
